RT @sonmonib5: Positive Thinking is not about #EXPECTING best to happen...
These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @heatherrose1814: G’morning Friends/ Beautiful Souls!🌹☕️🥐😁🤎❤️ Happy Saturday and #NationalCinnamonCrescentDay! 🥐 Have a super Saturday..…#Time is running out
#quote #future #life #SaturdaySunshine https://t.co/f8wooNRLXOA much needed vacation ⛱⛵️
Amazing #friends 💕 with lots of #yummy food🧑‍🍳 🥘🍳🥑
100 days of fitness completed ✅✅✅
#quote #future #life #SaturdaySunshine https://t.co/Ro6UTwMBR6Day vs Night! Pre fillet steak vs post fillet steak 😂
#happy #greatful #lookingforwardtothefuture 🥰 https://t.co/5xjj3I4vzvRT @funnydo25814387: I've never seen a dog this happy before.
"Lifewithgumball is Dog inspired everything! Crafts, recipes,… https://t.co/sbL4OesKy9RT @Berti_and_Ernie: If you like this smile, consider that #Happiness for others is just a retweet away. #dogs  😊 https://t.co/IPh4ZwTdkdRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Unsure baby Beaks has sure come a long way."
#passiveincome #money #be…Make plans to turn your dreams into reality. #Motivation 
RT @sonmonib5: Positive Thinking is not about #EXPECTING best to happen...
It is about #ACCEPTING that whatever will happen is BEST...
"#B…😆😆How funny your husband's reaction while you wearing these, you should have these. "
"https://t.co/vE60aeymJS… https://t.co/486QXAokfQRT @pamelaperl: An appropriate way to end what has been an incredible day in horse racing. This is a tribute to those less fortunate, but n…RT @funnydo25814387: "
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/O6BK54F2vRRT @The_Animal_Team: Still #missing #Ice #BishopAuckland #DL14 area. https://t.co/JQ7tUWXhWa #dogs #dogsoftwitter #MissingDog https://t.co/…RT @MaxDigitalSight: Be the architect of your own destiny - Choose to be a winner in your life and business. Infographic @antgrasso RT @lin…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham
"Aged 5-7, looking for an adult home with a lot of experience of #Ge…RT @Dave59539060: Are you sure a portrait of Bruce is hanging in hollowed Hall? Should be and soon will be if you guys help out. "
Visit Us
https://t.co/12oD0Oq1Fz… https://t.co/SFBfp7ewn9alot of issues i see and beef...is realistic. Someone fucked up bad period one side dont wanna admit much.… https://t.co/5u6LZtnMwHWe don’t really know where this goes -- and I’m not sure we really care. - Bob Ross #quoteoftheday #motivation #SamSEORT @LabfonUB: 📢NEW ARTICLE ONLINE
Do #emotions affect the VOT?
Martínez Belda &amp; Padilla provide answers in their new article in @FonExper…RT @Ranal55: The future seems to be coming more quickly every day.
#quote #future #life #SaturdaySunshine https://t.co/Ro6UTwMBR6I got my first vaccine yesterday &amp; I'm still alive with no side effects but a very sore arm.
#Trending… https://t.co/puC21pftcLRT @The_Animal_Team: #Labrador #puppies #stolen from #Galston #EastAyrshire overnight 9/10 April. 📞01560321903. #dogs #dogsoftwitter #stole…RT @Ranal55: The future seems to be coming more quickly every day.
#quote #future #life #SaturdaySunshine https://t.co/Ro6UTwMBR6RT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021
These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @heatherrose1814: G’morning Friends/ Beautiful Souls!🌹☕️🥐😁🤎❤️ Happy Saturday and #NationalCinnamonCrescentDay! 🥐 Have a super Saturday..…#Time is running out
Let there be no #doubt
We should sort things out
If we care
Like we say we do
Not just empty w… https://t.co/g6EzNlci2mRT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang
Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~
#…The future seems to be coming more quickly every day.
#quote #future #life #SaturdaySunshine https://t.co/f8wooNRLXOA much needed vacation ⛱⛵️
Amazing #friends 💕 with lots of #yummy food🧑‍🍳 🥘🍳🥑
In mountains of San Bernardino… https://t.co/q8mCziHUxG#Friends #ChitChat That is all.RT @Arts_42: Existence?
by Bruce Neeley ©️2021
❤️☘️🐥❤️✨❤️🐰❤️🐻❤️✨
#Art 🎨 #Drawing 🖍✒️✏️🖋
#Photography 📸📷❤️✨🌟 
#DigitalPainting ⌨️🖥💻🌟✨
"❤️🧡💛💚💙…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @LynneWalkerPro1: Let's get these puppies back home. Poor wee souls. https://t.co/iWzX3tuC0KRT @Ranal55: The future seems to be coming more quickly every day."
#quote #future #life #SaturdaySunshine https://t.co/Ro6UTwMBR6Day vs Night! Pre fillet steak vs post fillet steak 😂 
#happy #greatful #lookingforwardtothefuture 🥰 https://t.co/5xjj3I4vzvRT @funnydo25814387: I've never seen a dog this happy before.
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinsta 
https://t.co/50wylg4n6eRT @daydreaming_ld: If You Do 
What Makes
You #Happy 
Then You 
Will Never
Work A Day
In Your Life...
#WritingLife 
"#MondayThoughts https:/…RT @gsrescueelite: Misha is just a year old and already had 3 homes ! A very bright and high energy girl who can live with older kids but c…RT @PatStrauss3: @MaryJoe38642126 @USEmbPhnomPenh @USAmbCambodia @PeacePalaceKH @voakhmer #Cambodia, it's time for you to demonstrate #resp…And I go out to look at the world between sessions and pitches. #life #writerslift https://t.co/pY1E1chFU1RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham"
"Aged 5-7, looking for an adult home with a lot of experience of #Ge…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @gibsonswater: Get Rid Of Hard Water Spots &amp; Stains | Water-Right https://t.co/SEIJ8qtosd #water #cleanwater #gibbythefish #drinkmorewat…Doesn't take long looking around the staff room to work out who to avoid.Newborn Gentleman Jean set https://t.co/F7xhgT3A0I #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion #kids… https://t.co/t4pQa2cNd7Seeing the guys wearing them makes me want them even more!😂😂 "
https://t.co/72pJMsPcAV
 #workout #motivation… https://t.co/z2AAkIk0EiFree Prize Draw: Win a year's supply of your favourite dog food (value of up to £400) delivered to your door!… https://t.co/1BoUjiEciZRT @Ranal55: The future seems to be coming more quickly every day.
#quote #future #life #SaturdaySunshine https://t.co/Ro6UTwMBR6RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @shutdownBV: “I researched #GreyhoundRacing in depth, the more I learnt the more distressing it became.” Moe has been an ardent activist…RT @PlantPoweredDog: Visitors wanted my dog to be tied. So I had him tied."
#plantpowereddog #vegandog #vegandogfood #vegandogrecipes #vega…RT @funnydo25814387: 😍😅
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/O6BK54F2vRCompetition Time!
"Follow us on Twitter &amp; retweet to enter our social media competition draw to win a FREE Personali… https://t.co/o26N6VHwrF• We are the sum of our decisions, and as long as you’re happy, that’s all that matters. – Antigone Morris"
#matters 
#HappyRT @MohammadHJalili: A much needed vacation ⛱⛵️
Amazing #friends 💕 with lots of #yummy food🧑‍🍳 🥘🍳🥑
"In mountains of San Bernardino #National…RT @Thuraya08010495: "" If there’s no way, create"
"one For yourself 💛🍂 """
"#تفاصيل #حب #حياة #تصويري #كلام #تويتر #اقتباسات #اقتباسات_سنابيه #ا…So very sorry. 🙏🙏🙏❤💔💔💔RT @eddyricejr: The places we should be are defined by rules and regulations, and inane thoughts from pre-conceived notions and outdated id…RT @MohammadHJalili: A much needed vacation ⛱⛵️"
Amazing #friends 💕 with lots of #yummy food🧑‍🍳 🥘🍳🥑
In mountains of San Bernardino #National…RT @hilltopgina: CALLING ALL DOG LOVERS please help end the barbarism of greyhound racing 📢🐶
Please sign and please share 
#BanGreyhoundR…People that are refusing to get vaccinated for whatever reason are only holding the recovery process back.… https://t.co/UHVeYVdWv5RT @Britanniacomms: I Got Your Back Buddy c  ANASTALYA  #dogs #cute  https://t.co/mIj48iE9XPRT @mapleveewesem: Please don't forget these 4 #SoCal shelter #dogs . Click on their ID # to find tweets to continue to share.🙏 
FALCON #A5…✨ Treat yourself... You deserve it! ✨
". #forevermoodclothing #femalemotivation #womaninbusiness… https://t.co/Mg5DwMHuejOne does not know himself. One knows what others think of him, and the battle to be free begins there.Remember the past."
Plan for the future.
Live for today!
#LifeRT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021
"These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…Don’t call me, ”Trailer Trash”. "
My trailer is immaculate &amp; designed by a Hollywood designer.
"#Trending… https://t.co/9akG9gpeJDRT @SFDada: Blending thoughts of permanence and being so temporary ourselves. #PermacultureRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…Newborn Baby Bodysuits https://t.co/ZgYrDROAPN #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion #kids #babyshower… https://t.co/EROkoUkeunRT @dogfans4: When you’re having a good dream and your best friend is there too."
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for cre…RT @MillieandGriff: Zoooommmm!! #dogsoftwitter #dogs Mum forgot to share this photo the other day so we've made her post it now!! https://t…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Buddy find a home #ESSEX 
"Affectionate Akita aged 11, has some medical issues so short walks and a…A fitness tracker is great for helping with your motivation to keep fit.  See what's available.… https://t.co/YKBrxAX9huWhen Hu-Dad is discussing Typhoon's behavior, our Little Prince engages his royal listening skills. "
Full story at… https://t.co/nlxa32npNhRT @Mijopets: Competition Time!
"Follow us on Twitter &amp; retweet to enter our social media competition draw to win a FREE Personalised Pamper…Day 2/7 @german_alexia nominated me for the challenge. So for my second day I nominate the beautiful Queen Heidi… https://t.co/gmwEv32oCaRT @mapleveewesem: Another a.m. going to the #LosAngeles County #CA Animal Services website to check FALCON's listing hoping to see ""Adopti…RT @Princes51989945: Mornin frens 😊. Gonna be another beautiful day in the 80’s 🤗. Going for a walkie soon 🥳. Hoomom is happy that her Azal…Flaunt a sexier style that everyone will surely love! Time to give the spotlight to your lovely legs with Sexy Shar… https://t.co/pFBbh0o7sdRT @MaryJoe38642126: #China #Listing #Dogs as #Pets Means 0"
#Dogs #Cats Were #NEVER #On the #Livestock #List
#Enact #Enforce Real #Laws T…There's a good reason why you shouldn't upset your elders.
The older we get the less 'life in prison' is a deterren… https://t.co/bR0INg8vbyRT @funnydo25814387: I've never seen a dog this happy before.
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinsta 
https://t.co/zqVQitk4HQRT @scandamonium: Best walk on ever. #booandbae #thewayhelooksather #scandal #myloves #babies https://t.co/Au8VA4LIE5RT @The_Animal_Team: 🆘MISSING DINNINGTON NEWCASTLE NE13# Went #missing in fields in #Dinnington 7/4/21. https://t.co/rw6XkNMXF6 #dogs #dogs…RT @funnydo25814387: I've never seen a dog this happy before.
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinsta 
https://t.co/zqVQitk4HQRT @IMQuotes_Videos: Take action toward your goals every day.
"#Motivation https://t.co/ZfuM5DUvv7RT @book_tribe: • A powerful story of love and loss, sin, redemption and dog mess. You’ll never see your pet the same way again. #dogs #par…RT @funnydo25814387: 😍😅"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/O6BK54F2vRRT @WesleyM23702086: 💔🐾🐶🆘 Day 141. Why is a happy, healthy #Dog still in the shelter? When will his forever family see FALCON?😰 #A5387017 #…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Labrador #puppies #stolen from #Galston #EastAyrshire overnight 9/10 April. 📞01560321903. #dogs #dogsoftwitter #stole…Check out my healthy living page on my blog to learn more about me! #gym #life #Why"
https://t.co/UnuAOOQVpVTrue! Keeping something in secret or in the dark is often revealed.RT @RobertaBSinger: Happy International Women's Day!
#WomenSupportingWomen #womansday #strong #determination #8March #love #InternationalWo…RT @Matthew18163214: What chemicals are in your skincare?
Incredible Organic Skincare. 
https://t.co/4VVryaZ0f9
@BukaMoisture
"#Organics…“Find some friends, have some fun and go change the world!” - Evangelist Billy Graham #friends #fun and #fireworks… https://t.co/qYP9Ac18qART @GetMilliSkin: This is all 2021! The only thing you should be worried about is leveling up and bettering yourself. "
#millionaireskin #sk…#100daysoffitness 100/100
100 days of fitness completed ✅✅✅
#GLOBALGAINSGROUP 🌍📈 
#calories #weightloss… https://t.co/onugnrCRAyCouldn’t find #mrsonic at first. Then I did. #pomeranian #crate #lick #dog #dogs @dgrzesik https://t.co/AqMhdA14kTRT @NMBewitched: 💔💔Falcon💔💔
First started in Rescue &amp; Rehab
Told there would be Weeks filled with💔 Days of Wonder🤗
"Challenge is Always Hap…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 2 yo YING in #CorpusChristi #Texas is in dire need of a #DogLover to offer to #FOSTER him TODAY! Plz RT, &amp; #PLEDGE f…Causes Of Baldness: NATURAL HOME REMEDIES FOR BALDNESS AND HAIR LOSS https://t.co/u5aRQb4s2q"
#tagfire #lifestyle… https://t.co/KQuQb28Y66RT @BirchPlace: Beautiful and sexy girls in our lovely fantasywear
https://t.co/xS5dIJasD1
#sexy #shiny #fantasy #best #friends https://t.c…RT @samcapra: The GOAT 🐐🐐🐐🐐🐐🐐 #motivation #inspiration #quotes #success #motivationalquotes #goals #believe  #mindset #quoteoftheday #motiv…RT @funnydo25814387: I've never seen a dog this happy before.
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinsta 
"https://t.co/6SGwhD7kRCRT @harrypetsanis: ""Successful people get up everyday and repeat positive behaviors and actions. Unsuccessful people get up everyday and re…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @Ranal55: The future seems to be coming more quickly every day."
#quote #future #life #SaturdaySunshine https://t.co/Ro6UTwMBR6RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Obi find a home #LIVERPOOL     
"#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @DannyGautama: People who walked out of your life is  not the worst thing,but probably the best thing that ever happened to you.❤️. #Sat…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @PeterPeGsd: @gsrescueelite has some fabulous very generous supporters look what arrived in the post for Kuma."
#BeKind #GermanShepherd #…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Obi find a home #LIVERPOOL     
#dogs #dogsoftwitter https://t.co/S9yZ5Ou3jPGreat Alaska Eartquake 9.4
https://t.co/qej6PnlqFb
 #Deprem #earthquake #tsunami #japan #kanada #Canada #usa… https://t.co/2hxz7VR0M5RT @KnotSimple: Fleecy Green Handmade Baby Blanket https://t.co/7trpgNFZyb via @Etsy
#FreeShipping On All Items Store Wide
#babyroom #bab…RT @Ilovemy02803780: 😍😅
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/eNmEuZLVkRRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamI just supported Lifewithgumball on @buymeacoffee! 🎉 
"Lifewithgumball is Dog inspired everything! Crafts, recipes,… https://t.co/sbL4OesKy9RT @Berti_and_Ernie: If you like this smile, consider that #Happiness for others is just a retweet away. #dogs  😊 https://t.co/IPh4ZwTdkdRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Unsure baby Beaks has sure come a long way."
She’s turning one next week!  Beakering Intensifies!!
#ThrowbackThursday #…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @Ilovemy02803780: 😍😅
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/eNmEuZLVkRRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
"If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…RT @Ranal55: If you are not satisfied with the options that life presents to you, find or create new options."
#happysaturday #happyweekend #loveyourself #stayactive… https://t.co/lrxZzBXWPrHearing persists at end of #life -- ScienceDaily https://t.co/lZ1TGHOLEVRT @TheViditsharma: Parle G is harmful for  dogs 🐕
#ParleG
"#dogs https://t.co/69tRm0hOWIPrincess Tutu Dress https://t.co/h4dsL6oMrn #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion #kids #babyshower… https://t.co/MzGbtDYBK7RT @AnimalsSerious: Please, Texas 🙏 don’t let her extensions go to waste 🙏 please someone save this amazing girl 🙏‼️‼️‼️ ASAP ‼️‼️‼️👇👇👇👇👇👇👇…RT @amolalolo21: ..."
✧∭✧∰✧✿🌺
#life #beauty #beautiful #instagram #amazing… https://t.co/nrzSgTfrkC💥CRAZY UPDATE +3 CHAPTERS!💥
"Overnight he became his wife's slave. What? Her family is bullying her? This is revenge… https://t.co/DwF5YGzrZ3Dear optimist, pessimist, and realist – while you guys were busy arguing about the glass of wine, I drank it! Since… https://t.co/3SVvbEhSscIt's our first Woof Walks tom'w! Dogs must be leashed. Humans must be masked. Info: https://t.co/0M2ymewRwD… https://t.co/V2rZBrQQs8🔵 You do not win by competing with others, you win by improving yourself."
"#Quote #Inspiration #Motivation #QOTD… https://t.co/sXmTDvzVQsOur dogs deserve all the love and affection we can ever give them, and more.​"
"​This Hug Your Dog Day, get in some… https://t.co/LY77NpZ8e0These are some hard facts!"
#coffee #water #life https://t.co/yR6DbKNbG0Quote: George Addair
Photo by Yvette de Wit on Unsplash (https://t.co/wjTcpt6Lrr)
"#Motivation #SaturdayMotivation https://t.co/4QZqGpc29ERT @The_Animal_Team: Puppy #stolen from #Bisley #Surrey area, after two men went to the owner's home. Chipped. I am really having to bite m…There’s no roadmap for changing the world. #bjj #jiujitsu #brazilianjiujitsu #gi #nogi #mma #mixedmartialarts… https://t.co/OyFLgPBPN3Don't measure yourself by what you have accomplished, but by what you should have accomplished with your ability.⚾⚽… https://t.co/BptU73GWBRI can resist anything but temptation.   #Quote #Quoteoftheday #Motivation #KeepGoing https://t.co/vZepCLWFjNRT @hilltopgina: CALLING ALL DOG LOVERS please help end the barbarism of greyhound racing 📢🐶"
Please sign and please share 
#BanGreyhoundR…🌟 For Business Legal Services 💥📞 Call or text (205) 222-9815 💪🏾 Our team is here to serve you!!! 
"#getricenow… https://t.co/E3K4iEsChDGreat Alaska Eartquake,9.4"
https://t.co/qej6PnlqFb
 #Deprem #earthquake #tsunami #japan #kanada #Canada #usa… https://t.co/OFdcZQrj0VTo take good care... #Peace #gedeprama #bali #beauty #happy #healthy #holy #innerharmony #JoyTrain
"Photo courtesy:… https://t.co/Xb2VBwBAAd@HeidiBearKaye1 @seasylvia2005 @rickygervais @JaneFallon ""When everyone backs a top science hearing to prove the ex… https://t.co/U5K6afarmtCuteness overload"
#dogs #dogoftheday #ilovemydog #puppy #lovedogs #servicedog #petlovers #doglovers #dog… https://t.co/NEpjNfkL2AThat dog is living out loud 👋RT @RobertaBSinger: Roberta' s Christmas Video. Click link below to view. 
Enjoy!!
https://t.co/4V6Zde0wje
#christmascheer #christmas #musi…RT @bjjmentalmodels: There’s no roadmap for changing the world. #bjj #jiujitsu #brazilianjiujitsu #gi #nogi #mma #mixedmartialarts #wrestli…April is Oral Cancer awareness month.
#Motivation #April #DrKadishaMD #DrRapp #ERdoctor #safetyfirst #physician… https://t.co/xjs9MZN6UFRT @LifeWithJohn: If you really want something you will find a way. If you don't you will find an excuse. ~ #Motivation https://t.co/z2uGlQ…GNIM Sexy Bandeau Swimsuit Women Ruffle Bikini Mujer 2020 Summer Sexy Two Pieces Solid Pink Swimwear Push Up Bather… https://t.co/Bb2S1DxU4tRT @maxbhill: Life castes  it's shadows but in the light there is always beauty #Hope #Happy #Philip #gardening #photography #Believe https…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Buddy find a home #ESSEX 
"Affectionate Akita aged 11, has some medical issues so short walks and a…Traditional Greek sweets and more delivered in Sydney, FREE shipping. Get our famous Baklava delivered to home/work… https://t.co/VzXTWD0tVMTraditional Greek sweets &amp; more delivered to Sydney FREE shipping. Get Kourabiedes Almond Shortbread delivered to h… https://t.co/04UD2YDwcnGive your pet that spring back in their step!! Check out our Lickable Actives peanut butter that support Prebiotics… https://t.co/1gldsEAICDRT @BodogCA: “The One Where Vince Carter and Mats Sundin swapped careers!”"
"#Friends https://t.co/K5tjNgffl5Remember in January when you made those goals? Are you reaching them? If not, what is holding you back?"
"Call me to… https://t.co/LoTIZiXfpgSIMPLE.POWERFUL.INSIGHTFUL are words people use to describe Career Visioning 101  https://t.co/X0viSHovF1… https://t.co/0ddZHEGBWcJump on your chance to read these FREE stories, the hard work of amazing authors!"
https://t.co/2rvytwXl6w
"#IARTG… https://t.co/EhVoElYkGNRT @harrypetsanis: ""We weren't created to please everyone, serve everyone, take advice from everyone, and live in a manner that benefits ev…#day4 #workout #AboveAverageInApril #celebrate #Life #family and #history #music #verzuz #isleybrothers vs… https://t.co/OIkrRcIE3JSomeone has said, “If you do what you always did, you will get what you always got.” Yep, do something different if… https://t.co/4A1diEnDIqRT @Arcadia_For_All: ...Why wait for the politicians and bureaucrats to catch up? If you want a better, braver, brighter, greener world, th…#Petlove #pets Puppy Love #dog #aww #doggo via https://t.co/hxbtx9qvOo #animal #puppy #doggy #dogs#Petlove #pets Puppy Love #dog #aww #doggo via https://t.co/0K6JbIwtZk #animal #puppy #doggy #dogs""I can't #fix the #world, I can't #save the world, but I can make a difference in one person's #life."" #secondchance https://t.co/B1bnh1JliqRT @Ilovedo70964916: RT @funnydo25814387: I've never seen a dog this happy before."
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinsta 
"https…Thanks @Bhavesh_Tech for the Follow 💚 let’s talk about how your imagination is as real as your so-called reality...… https://t.co/gr0KJ2PL33Will you be celebrating #NationalHugYourDogDay by giving your furry friend some extra love? Show us who’s getting y… https://t.co/o58UFnOmtpRT @maxbhill: Life castes  it's shadows but in the light there is always beauty #Hope #Happy #Philip #gardening #photography #Believe https…RT @Todwurdug: Jim is an older chap, retired from his job on the farm and now looking for a furever home to see out his golden years!🐾💖Courage🦋-Zip Accessory Pouch https://t.co/lqEUUkiiYP. Small bag offering encouragement +check free shipping ops via… https://t.co/u7ZT3wdvOc#NationalSiblingDay ~ Celebrate the differences! #SiblingsDay #dogslife #Dogs #humor https://t.co/dFlohiYbXNRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
"#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham https://t.co/aDfGLcpnh7RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter ht…A senior dog finally gets what she needs. https://t.co/JXrzfV7EwW #HopeForPaws #Pets #Dogs #LoveENDING 1994-95 NBA HOOPS GRANT HILL ROOKIE #322 DETROIT PISTONS #DetroitPistons https://t.co/YPbZq1donq via @eBay… https://t.co/ScdA9BQUI3Codeword Reading Challenges - Famous People KS3. Have fun and learn! 👩‍🎤🧑‍🎤🧑‍🎓👩‍🎓✏️ https://t.co/DaaV0s90PM… https://t.co/Wfi5M9ibU8True! Control and guide our thoughts, greed, anger, hate, jealousy and all negativity, the world will be a happier… https://t.co/vc9O5kJ4btThink long term.  See the truth."
"@Health_Manifest #longterm #truth #success #inspiration #motivation #believe… https://t.co/sgQHsCPDgL#Motivation comes and goes. That’s just the truth. If you’re struggling with motivation, I’ve come up with 15 quest… https://t.co/lJ8cxlhJjHLike Me on Facebook for good karma! https://t.co/FXd5iBjQmO Thanks! #motivation #fresno #hanfordca #lemooreOne of our favorites backdrops, here at the studio!"
#toddler
#kiddo
#kid
#toddlerpictures
#studiophotos… https://t.co/iRw58i65ze#Smoking #Saturday
Light One Up
Hold &amp; Take A Drag
#420 Playmate 
https://t.co/CqKJ7yio3i
Mention SMOKE5 for 5 FRE… https://t.co/5IWu1FfkCyRT @dogfans4: Weekend mood
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📸: insta/pepperminidachshund https://t.co/tWzCEpeDS2RT @juliana_monty: Baby #lamb keeps asking to be petted just like #dogs &amp; #cats would. Live animal exports to be banned in #England &amp; #Wale…RT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…RT @AAGR_UK: 87,000🇬🇧 residents want #Greyhound racing phased out. Be one of the 13,000 signatures needed now to reach the 100k target."
On…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help George find a home #CUMBRIA
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HAMPSHIRE 
"'Amazing character' Lurcher Cross aged approx 1, affectionate, hous…So many #emotions today! But we still standing so we keep going! #RT #SaturdayVibesRT @RobertaBSinger: Out in the city enjoying the Sun. Wearing my mask 😊 "
"#music #photos #clothing #friends #fun #greatpeople #greattimes ht…Dog taking a jump at an agility day  #Animal #Canine #Mammal #Dog #Pet #Grass #Agility #Animal #Animals #Canine… https://t.co/Xh7wXa2GmERT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham#DogDays by @ErickaWaller1 is an incredibly moving, sensitively written novel that won;t fail to pull at your heart… https://t.co/HjuizU1xVqRT @johnwinters14: Come on #Texas Let's help these two beautiful siblings find their forever home. Please open your hearts and homes to bot…RT @studio22artz: I am now able to share this memorial portrait which is now on its way to Canada. The lovely Ella. #drawing #art #dogs #pe…🐾💕🐾 #NationalHugYourDogDay ? "
"Isn't every day a day to hug your pup(s)? I don't need a day to remind me to do that.… https://t.co/DKpooctsq3Don't forget to check us out on Facebook and Instagram @HGHSocialMarket. #followme #health #awesome #motivate… https://t.co/sJOXZVxW8FRT @PokerProBV: This is absolutely true. I can't tell you how many times I've been at a table and here comes some guy who thinks poker is a…RT @Raymond_Norman: '5⭐️...a gentle, heart-warming holiday read "
(by @DFPWriter)...'
"#fitness #gym #fitnesslover #yoga #fitnessapparel #motivation… https://t.co/uqobaVaIq4Ok Ross giving a massage with salad spoons is hysterical. #FriendsRT @RoscoeLonestar: Asher, Manny’s little brother has the deadly Parvovirus. We need help with funds 4 treatment (estimated $3,500) and pra…RT @LiamWonderPug: John's son picked the wrong weekend to help him work in the yard, it's been raining all day. "
#KravitzReport #SaturdayT…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀RT @stellrrinsulate: Gratitude Changes Everything. 😲🏆✌️
https://t.co/aHnKMpITrW 
#WeFixUncomfortableHomes #Austin #Insulation #BeGrateful #…Introducing my beautiful kpop Stan friends #ahgase version 💚💚✨✨ 
"#got7 #갓세븐 #friends #kpop #TikTok… https://t.co/R7YcN2YaSNRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Tango find a home #Cambridgeshire #England 🍀RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bella find a home #Manchester #DogsofTwittter@HelpDogs7 As long as the money truly goes to help dogs in need, I will help get you noticed. "
"It’s a great way to… https://t.co/QEgTC9VchqRT @crooksonbooks: #DogDays by @ErickaWaller1 is an incredibly moving, sensitively written novel that won;t fail to pull at your heart stri…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Suzie and Murphy find a home together #Edinburgh  #Scotland #dogs #dogsoftwitter https://t.co/69g40…Hanging with you only leaves me strung out &amp; misshapen in every form."
#Trending #quote #quotes #quotestoliveby… https://t.co/BQthp9FYKZRT @SoniaMcDonald01: Renember always in everything you do and say that leadership is about people and we are all human. ❤️
"@LeadershipHQ1…“Honor is the inner garment of the Soul; the first thing put on by it with the flesh, and the last it layeth down a… https://t.co/h2QaMoX7dORT @colleengrott: We we’re going to go to the park, but mom needs to rest after 🩸loss so we’re going to have a cuddle party instead. 🤗😂♥️…RT @Todwurdug: Jim is an older chap, retired from his job on the farm and now looking for a furever home to see out his golden years!🐾💖RT @GLOBALGAINSGRP: #100daysoffitness 100/100"
100 days of fitness completed ✅✅✅
#GLOBALGAINSGROUP 🌍📈 
"#calories #weightloss #caloriecoun…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @willmusk3: Weekend In New England -Barry Manilow #love #singer #makeup #producer #classical #beautiful #pianist #music #musicians #band…RT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters."
"If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…RT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…If unhealthy for dogs, how can it be good for humans ?RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @xvermonter61: No words needed! ❤️#Dogs #SaturdayVibes #DogsOfTwitter https://t.co/KFGcylgbEIRT @mapleveewesem: @ValentinaP444 Please watch YING's video.🙏 ⬆ Reminds me so much of the pup on the video that led me to tweet for shelter…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Suzie and Murphy find a home together #Edinburgh  #Scotland #dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @medyoushop: lose weight without dieting!!!"
#loseweight #weightloss #fitness #weightlossjourney #diet #healthylifestyle #healthy #healt…RT @MECreativeAgent: A #personal #favorite from my @Etsy shop
"#inspiration #motivation #entrepreneur #happiness #love  #mom #momlife #momp…RT @AbruptCanine4: This was an amazing stream! Finally back with @OuterWorlds and the game is SO good! I am having nothing but a blast play…RT @Shaheer_S: What a day #latepost #LONCENGCINTA #friends #CHILLING https://t.co/CGdDj9qxGiRT @harrypetsanis: ""People spend more time avoiding their pain and running from their fears then they do healing and overcoming the dysfunc…We need clear water..."
"#planetearth #planetguard #nature #landscape #photo #travel #spa #trekking #camping #kayak… https://t.co/U7JVWlY1nrKeep your #dogs away from #alligators.Retro All-match Handbag Small Bag Female#amazing #happy https://t.co/03mAXW0CDx https://t.co/CxEQJ49ZPsRT @funnydo25814387: Luna was fatally shot while pursuing a suspect. Our hearts go out to her fellow officers — thank you for your service,…We’re official partners of the @UFC now! So excited about the future. #MACfundamentals #UFC #LinkInBioMACmerch… https://t.co/4X5hVinbFbRT @gsrescueelite: Madge is coming up to 2yrs old and this sweet girl does everything at 100mph and is always entertaining, she can live wi…RT @Archie_AlfieCav: Morning, thank you for all your love &amp;  prayers yesterday ❤️ Alfie is continuing to get plenty of sleep (Mum is not 🥰)…RT @Ranal55: The future seems to be coming more quickly every day."
"#quote #future #life #SaturdaySunshine https://t.co/Ro6UTwMBR6RT @funnydo25814387: Happy birthday, Augie! Congrats on this amazing achievement! 🎂"
 #dogs #dogsofinstagram #DogsofTwittter #dog
https://t.…RT @heatherrose1814: G’morning Friends/ Beautiful Souls!🌹☕️🥐😁🤎❤️ Happy Saturday and #NationalCinnamonCrescentDay! 🥐 Have a super Saturday..…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Shadow find a home #Shropshire 
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter https://t.co/e7dIT88FHnRT @The_Animal_Team: Elderly #GermanShepherd found collapsed in #Kimberley #Notts 7/4/21, &amp; not chipped."
If you have any information please…Dot jumpsuit Infant Clothing set https://t.co/vhyinmfh7S #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion #kids… https://t.co/SJCeA1n4CCRest well today friends. America’s Ass is hard at work! 
"#InternationalTwitterMensDay #friends #podcaster #America https://t.co/kVXJI9wk9wRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…🔥🔥🔥 This Butterfly apron can be made in any color you prefer."
What color will that be for you?… https://t.co/luijhqegJvRT @TiaJack17: Guarding the yard 🐶🐶 #dogs #dogsoftwitter https://t.co/Sc5fEvygH6RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @funnydo25814387: I've never seen a dog this happy before.
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinsta 
"https://t.co/zqVQitk4HQLife is inscrutable. You can’t predict what is going to happen tomorrow. When you look back and sum up, you see not… https://t.co/5sJbi7bWcHRT @Maria62640456: All Sign This Petition &amp; Share It."
https://t.co/RQ3puSgF2eRT @Mijopets: Competition Time!
"Follow us on Twitter &amp; retweet to enter our social media competition draw to win a FREE Personalised Pamper…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fidget find a home #Bridgend #Wales #dogs #dogsoftwitter  🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿 https://t.co/wC5GjooNgK🐶🐱 Talk to a live veterinarian 24/7/365 👉 https://t.co/wvxqxEBXKI #veterinarian #dogs #cats #vet #veterinary… https://t.co/iwXtB3S2D8RT @The_Animal_Team: #Labrador #puppies #stolen from #Galston #EastAyrshire overnight 9/10 April. 📞01560321903. #dogs #dogsoftwitter #stole…I sold my first work from the “Material of emotions” series of 2017, in @hicetnunc2000. It inspires!😀👍"
"Link to hice… https://t.co/i0ATeKmNOVTo help yourself, help others. Whatever good you do travels a circle and returns to you many times over. But rememb… https://t.co/nVOlzwXUolRT @MaryJoe38642126: .@JPN_PMO"
9/1-3/1= #Dolphin #HuntingSeason in #Taiji .@japan 
#End the #TORTURE
#Dolphins are #Trapped 
"#Eaten/#St…The Secret (Unlisted) Medium Post That Will Show You How to Become a Top Medium Writer  https://t.co/ndbBSTT50a… https://t.co/7lZaJLJACpRT @Belov_vl: I sold my first work from the “Material of emotions” series of 2017, in @hicetnunc2000. It inspires!😀👍"
Link to hicetnunc: htt…RT @daydreaming_ld: If You Do 
What Makes
You #Happy 
Then You 
Will Never
Work A Day
In Your Life...
#WritingLife 
"#MondayThoughts https:/…RT @Archie_AlfieCav: Morning, thank you for all your love &amp;  prayers yesterday ❤️ Alfie is continuing to get plenty of sleep (Mum is not 🥰)…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireMarvellous Madge is on the lookout for her active forever home. Please contact @gsrescueelite for details on adopti… https://t.co/AKqMUpzHsPRT @l_lockheart: #goodmorning and #happy #SaturdayVibes ^_^"
This butterfly was dancing around my plants yesterday and granted me two decen…RT @courageandco1: Renember always in everything you do and say that leadership is about people and we are all human. ❤️
@LeadershipHQ1 @S…RT @MaryJoe38642126: .@konotaromp
9/1-3/1= #Dolphin #HuntingSeason in #Taiji .@japan 
#End the #TORTURE
#Dolphins are #Trapped 
#Eaten/…RT @texastwins2004: #cindyism #failure #quotes #grateful #success #inspiration #motivation #lifequotes #selflove #quote “FAILURES are the S…RT @MaryJoe38642126: .@MOFAJapan_en 
#STOP The  #Dolphin #Hunts  IN #Taiji .@japan 
UNTIL IT #STOPS 
#Many #WIll 
⬇️
#BoycottJapan 
⬆️
#…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 
"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @emel0371: I say hello to a new week with the magnificent dance of the birds.👋🕊🕊🕊🕊"
Reels video by Claire Droppert ( IG claireonline) 💯…RT @modinofoto: Pic by mon modino @modinofoto
#photography #fotografia #photographer #fotografa #pregnancy #pregnant #embarazada #premama #…RT @genibazaar: Women's High Waist Striped Leggings
$11.00 
"#fitness #gym #fitnesslover #yoga #fitnessapparel #motivation #genibazaar #on…Retailers Supplying Wholesale Suitcase Bags in the United States, Australia, Canada, and Saudi Arabia"
Visit:… https://t.co/x7WKJamsA8Pony fun! 💙
"#thelittleponyclub #pony #horse #shetlandpony #fun #littlejockeys #riding #horseriding #ponyfun… https://t.co/jPgc2nGX1s“Tough times never last, but tough people do.”  Robert H. Schuller"
"#Entrepreneur #Motivation #business #businessgrowthRT @The_Animal_Team: #Labrador #puppies #stolen from #Galston #EastAyrshire overnight 9/10 April. 📞01560321903. #dogs #dogsoftwitter #stole…RT @harrypetsanis: ""We don't make mistakes because we're human. We make mistakes because we make poor choices and have dysfunctional mindse…RT @Ilovemy02803780: I've never seen a dog this happy before."
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinsta 
https://t.co/nzw28umTqoRT @TrophyWifeApron: 🔥🔥🔥 This Butterfly apron can be made in any color you prefer.
What color will that be for you?
https://t.co/APZxpxLlKE…RT @Rom_TAlan: #Resisters!  Please follow and RT Jeff!  We need him!
🌊😷#FridayThoughts #LGBTQ🏳️‍🌈#NOH8 #Resist #FBR #BLM #Grassroots #tweet…RT @modinofoto: Pic by mon modino @modinofoto
"#photography #fotografia #photographer #fotografa #pregnancy #pregnant #embarazada #premama #…RT @harrypetsanis: ""People spend more time avoiding their pain and running from their fears then they do healing and overcoming the dysfunc…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 If you are a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC &amp; can share your home, 1 of these 4 sweet &amp; beautiful #dogs needs you to…RT @10_Ilovedogs: Aww ❤️"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/Q3Xo0stgDJRT @Ranal55: The future seems to be coming more quickly every day.
"#quote #future #life #SaturdaySunshine https://t.co/Ro6UTwMBR6RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @SKPrem55: #Happy Siblings Day- #Wishes from SURIYA FANS CLUB-SALEM  🤗❤👬👫 "
"#SiblingsDay Wishing all #SuriyaAnna's Thambigal &amp; sister's…RT @harrypetsanis: ""No one has ever been inspired by hearing what someone else isn't doing. Criticizing and pointing out the flaws and issu…OK Monica and Rachel are totally unreasonable the majority of the time. #Friends3 things I'm grateful for today:"
- My dad (@Hullrunner) starting my block paving 🧱
- My friends Helen and Jo 👩👩
"- T… https://t.co/ZkFiYHeNwB""The man with no imagination has no wings."" #quote #quotes #inspiration #motivation #true #quoteofthedayThe Ark 😭 debut stage"
Intro dance + The Light (debut song)
#bts #exo #monstax #ikon #bigbang #blackpink #redvelvet… https://t.co/UVNDUECjXCSaturday #Motivation 
https://t.co/QW0Ca4pWwB https://t.co/5F4Q7iQg4dRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRecharge your source 
#graphic #graphics #design #designer #poster #energy #soul #quotes #life #art #photoshop… https://t.co/qyoSQCg1KfRT @modinofoto: Pic by mon modino @modinofoto
"#photography #fotografia #photographer #fotografa #pregnancy #pregnant #haurdun #embarazada #…RT @harrypetsanis: ""We weren't created to please everyone, serve everyone, take advice from everyone, and live in a manner that benefits ev…RT @MiriMission: Nessy is here and she is looking for her forever home. "
Isn't she adorable?!
"If you would like to be considered, please…RT @MiaMalkova: Smile 😊 "
"#weekend #friyay #love #happy #style https://t.co/IWkzGoxY2eRT @harrypetsanis: ""Successful people get up everyday and repeat positive behaviors and actions. Unsuccessful people get up everyday and re…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamhttps://t.co/uG3MoMhIBj Arshdeep Sethi (RMZ Corp) – Business Sight’s 10 Most Influential Business Leaders in 2021… https://t.co/qbcfsSNDeVYou are a human, being. You are a walking miracle. Happy weekend. 💚"
🔃: @matthaig1 
"#miracle #human #life… https://t.co/B38GeA0LloRT @jyotiartists: Superb quote👏👏👌👌@Liv__Es I can't remember how to, somebody should publish a guide. "
"#LifeRT @chrisndigndoug: #TeamZay #itsallaboutthedogs Please retweet ❤️🐾RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…"
"The latest Dog's Life Daily News! https://t.co/O0NPEvgT3R Thanks to @ShatonE21 @IlennSantos #dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @LisaClareRead2: Adorable Obie is on the lookout for his experienced forever home. Please contact @gsrescueelite for details on adopting…@ddlovato #Unique #prayer rug with a #life story."
Details click on the link below;
"https://t.co/PjLY1PAgz2… https://t.co/i2sEXqdLU5RT @AKCHercules: Please help if you can, we did! ❤️ @nuggetsdrooling @RidleyHowell @casie190 @abby_bulldog @itsSirGustafson @Catsemail @elv…We are Live people, come join the fun 🎶👋😊"
#live #livestream #livemusic #livechat #supportnewmusic #support… https://t.co/9ndpPCDHYqEarth Day complete Unit KS1/EAL 🌎🌍🌏🌈🌱🌿🍃 https://t.co/h3bOzbN58n #education #learning #school #motivation #covid… https://t.co/B5QrPG0iZwRT @LisaClareRead2: Fabulous Freddie is on the lookout for his child and pet free forever home. Please contact @gsrescueelite for details o…RT @IMQuotes_Videos: What’s the worst that can happen?
People will laugh at you?
They will reject you?
Doors will slam in your face?
Remem…@ddlovato #Unique #prayer rug with a #life story.
Details click on the link below;
"https://t.co/PjLY1PAgz2… https://t.co/vCR4dJujFIRT @texastwins2004: #cindyism #quotes #media #commonsense #wisdom #motivation #lifequotes #quote ""the STRAIGHTEST tree IN the FOREST, stand…RT @gsrescueelite: Freddie is 6yrs old and this lad came to us via the pound, he is a happy and friendly lad but will need a child and pet…I snorted."
😆🤣
#babies 
#TikTok 
"#voiceover https://t.co/4F8KnxEL0GMastery can only be obtained by #dominion over ourselves, doing so connects us to ALL. "

.
https://t.co/JN8mpnR06t… https://t.co/ejPCuylEl3RT @cwebimpressions: Stay positive today and smile? ❤ Chris

#business #money #life #fitness #love https://t.co/C7tnp0VHnF https://t.co/n90…Success is a long process keep fighting.

"Have a great, positive, beautiful day! "

"#darrellbaileyrealestate… https://t.co/g3jXkc8LRkRT @ScarlettBeagle: ""Sound up everyone!"" woofs rescued ex-laboratory @ScarlettBeagle, ""I had the most amazing time in the woods today, spel…RT @cgbosslady1: Happy Saturday! It’s a beautiful sunny day!  M&amp;D and I are back from our first walk and I have found my first napping plac…RT @TheTwinPowers: Mastery can only be obtained by #dominion over ourselves, doing so connects us to ALL. "

.
https://t.co/JN8mpnR06t 

.…#Motivation I now want to be a  #cop #WeedLovers https://t.co/ghvbPDeoVmRT @10_Ilovedogs: Aww ❤️
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/Q3Xo0stgDJRT @selfimprovment: Self Improvement Mindzoom Software. Wake The Genius In You, Improve Your Mind And Body: https://t.co/VAVRFSURn1"
#Mind #…You're never too old to set another #goal or to #dream another dream. #Motivation https://t.co/kUg6OYbkI8RT @LisaClareRead2: Marvellous Max is on the lookout for his forever home. Please contact @gsrescueelite for details on adopting this lovel…Taught #football #teams &amp; #college #lawenforcement #students: 
"You'll never know what you pissed away on #Training… https://t.co/kBQqTmLbnX@dweinberger @BECKIEMAR #gunther #friends  #CentralPerk I’ve never done this, but... y’a think we could get him trending ??“Another reason your business may not growing as fast as you want it to is because the image you are holding of you… https://t.co/b442hI24HoRT @gsrescueelite: Misha is just a year old and already had 3 homes ! A very bright and high energy girl who can live with older kids but c…RT @gsrescueelite: Max is 5yrs old and this lad needs a home as his humans are emigrating. He is a very bright and keen lad who can live wi…@taylorswift13 #Unique #prayer rug with a #life story."
Details click on the link below;

"https://t.co/PjLY1PAgz2… https://t.co/Li3UOEaUcfRT @maxbhill: Life castes  it's shadows but in the light there is always beauty #Hope #Happy #Philip #gardening #photography #Believe https…Sheer joy watching Barney chasing the falling snowflakes.🐾🐾🤗 #irishsetters #BarneyTheIrishSetter #BarneyBops #Silly… https://t.co/sf3O88JbK4RT @LisaClareRead2: Marvellous Madge is on the lookout for her active forever home. Please contact @gsrescueelite for details on adopting t…Elmer the Elephant maths game for KS1/SEN/EAL/EYFS 🐘🏳️‍🌈🔢🆒➕➖🥳 https://t.co/MQdo0Yt5Ns #education #learning #school… https://t.co/66ddiWy8vyRT @TheTwinPowers: Mastery can only be obtained by #dominion over ourselves, doing so connects us to ALL. "

.
https://t.co/JN8mpnR06t 

.…RT @funnydo25814387: I've never seen a dog this happy before.
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinsta 
https://t.co/zqVQitk4HQRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Holmes find a home #WILTSHIRE 

"Handed over as an unwanted xmas gift in 2018, he's intelligent and…RT @gsrescueelite: Madge is coming up to 2yrs old and this sweet girl does everything at 100mph and is always entertaining, she can live wi…Happy are those who are with right people. Sparing moments with you all is always fun and loving it. "
"Enjoying the… https://t.co/PEUJc4U504RT @mapleveewesem: @ValentinaP444 Please watch YING's video.🙏 ⬆ Reminds me so much of the pup on the video that led me to tweet for shelter…Marvellous Misha is on the lookout for her active forever home. Please contact @gsrescueelite for details on adopti… https://t.co/QxfMF1D3HNMaximum Power Thermogenic Fat Burner, Weight Loss,  Energy &amp; Hunger Control    "
MADE IN THE USA🇺🇸
"#fitness… https://t.co/bJ8nsoB9yQRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
#dogs #dogsoftwitter ht…Happy Siblings Day! 💙🐶🐈🐕@mrsnicolerenza #cats #catsofinstagram #catstagram #dogs #dogsofinstagram #dogstagram https://t.co/Ra96JGnn74@KylieJenner #Unique #prayer rug with a #life story.
Details click on the link below;

https://t.co/PjLY1PAgz2… https://t.co/VvNZC9C5GART @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham
"Aged 5-7, looking for an adult home with a lot of experience of #Ge…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @TheTwinPowers: Mastery can only be obtained by #dominion over ourselves, doing so connects us to ALL. "

.
https://t.co/JN8mpnR06t 

".…RT @AnimalUtkarsh: Utkarsh radium collars cost only ₹20-30! Even if you wish to donate 50 radium collars, it will just cost you around ₹100…RT @mapleveewesem: Please don't forget these 4 #SoCal shelter #dogs . Click on their ID # to find tweets to continue to share.🙏 "
FALCON #A5…RT @dobetterwithdan: New from The Existential Stoic Podcast!
Episode 29 - The Paradoxes of Life
Life is full of Paradoxes! One of our best…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bella find a home #Manchester #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/FgjO7FPBfs@KendallJenner #Unique #prayer rug with a #life story.
Details click on the link below;

"https://t.co/PjLY1PAgz2… https://t.co/ANnvZhAupHRT @ScarlettBeagle: @HeidiBearKaye1 @seasylvia2005 @rickygervais @JaneFallon ""When everyone backs a top science hearing to prove the experi…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Barley find a home #KENT "
 
"JRT aged 1, can live with children aged 14+ as only pet, loves fuss, wi…RT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾"
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…Taught #football #teams &amp; #college #lawenforcement #students: 
You'll never understand what you pissed away on… https://t.co/T9D6oO6rXdSeasons maths game for KS1/SEN/EAL/EYFS 🍂🌿🌞🥶🔢🆒➕➖🥳 https://t.co/iNIjbtrwUi #learning #school #motivation #covid… https://t.co/UCmDEV3XizRT @GsdLoverss: Lion cub🥰🥰

Follow @GsdLoverss for more❤️

#germanshepherd #dogsoftwitter #K9 #gsd #dogs #cutedog #puppy #Dog https://t.co/…2296 5226 0817 TL 44 looking for #friends and daily gifters and receivers up to best buddies #PokemonGOraid… https://t.co/J1Kz8vkXKrRT @TheSigSauer: #DailyClip of @PlayApex from a session with #playingwithfriends. Stepped away from #ApexLegends when shortly after it debu…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…@KrisJenner @khloekardashian #Unique #prayer rug with a #life story.
"Details click on the link below;… https://t.co/CBSujgud3jRT @md20oz: I don't know this person, but I know how terrible it feels to be separated from your pet. https://t.co/bxFud9TSZy "

"#dogs #dogs…""If you can't fly, then run."
"If you can't run, then walk."
"If you can't walk, then crawl."
"But by all means, keep mov… https://t.co/dFepmfwky2RT @Wolfiedoodles: We are Live people, come join the fun 🎶👋😊"
#live #livestream #livemusic #livechat #supportnewmusic #support #supportsmall…RT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021

These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @IamTabithaBrown: It’s not too late for you! I ❤️you! #tabithabrown #Motivation https://t.co/kEUlCPYs6tRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham
"Aged 5-7, looking for an adult home with a lot of experience of #Ge…RT @harrypetsanis: ""We weren't created to please everyone, serve everyone, take advice from everyone, and live in a manner that benefits ev…Every struggle in your life has shaped you into the person you are today. Be thankful for the hard times, they can… https://t.co/ipK1hBgt86Someone once asked me if I thought there were any personality traits that are 100% bad. My answer; No. I don't. It'… https://t.co/LbieOd0xd9RT @PeterPeGsd: @gsrescueelite has some fabulous very generous supporters look what arrived in the post for Kuma."
"#BeKind #GermanShepherd #…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @gsrescueelite: Milo is 2yrs old and this lovely lad is looking for a very exp, child and pet free home as he does have toy/food aggress…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage"
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…Tax accountant floof at your service 😎😂 credit https://t.co/0xryPghnsw
"#goldenretriever #dogs https://t.co/0YpnUpXMVeThis is both humorous and true!  Agree, it is like you get what you see! Nice! https://t.co/s2Zno8eoNSRainforest maths game for KS1/SEN/EAL/EYFS🌴🌳🌲🦎🐍🐛🐞🔢🆒➕➖🥳 https://t.co/sXm264XDMb #education #learning #school… https://t.co/CrTnwKYSHr@BarackObama #Unique #prayer rug with a #life story."
Details click on the link below;

https://t.co/PjLY1PAgz2… https://t.co/NY9kpE3wWSWE ARE OFFICIAL! @MACfundamentals @UFC #MACfundamentals #UFCRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Obi find a home #LIVERPOOL     
#dogs #dogsoftwitter https://t.co/S9yZ5Ou3jPRT @avecozave: Remember...
"#ThoughtForTheDay #life #quotes #quote #motivation https://t.co/q5PQqTModjRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…It’s ok to not be happy all the time. There are a broad range of feelings one can experience, and it’s helpful to s… https://t.co/Y1LYC6j6DwLiving a rich life where one experiences a full range of feelings is much more authentic and ultimately more reward… https://t.co/Qeq0F4xM21Soooo tiny 🥺RT @Berti_and_Ernie: Let me cheer you up!  smile #dogs https://t.co/dC1xzp4VmgLife Lessons from the Monk Who Sold His Ferrari https://t.co/pDzhr0KWRH #likeforlikes #foodie #ootd #foodporn #home… https://t.co/8XHOBthxab@MichelleObama @ScaryMommyBooks #Unique #prayer rug with a #life story."
Details click on the link below;… https://t.co/hUHAwO09UrRT @MaryJoe38642126: .@PeacePalaceKH #HunSen

#EnactEnforce #Laws #Banning #DogMeatTrade In #Cambodia 🙏🏽

#Dogs Are #Tortured 

"The #DogMea…@bunsenbernerbmd Nova: I know, right Big B?"
Younger siblings! Not even fair! 
#SiblingsDay #Dogs https://t.co/ug8n4iVIEsRT @KarenCookPhotos: A reminder to us all that #LifeisBeautiful  #appreciatethelittlethings #birds #NaturePhotography #nature #birdwatching…Marvellous Milo is on the lookout for his experienced child and pet free forever home. Please contact… https://t.co/meVxC8XH5LEliminating all excuses is essential to the process of working toward your #goals. #motivation… https://t.co/hZsZMgZITCRT @AbruptCanine4: This was an amazing stream! Finally back with @OuterWorlds and the game is SO good! I am having nothing but a blast play…@SpeakerPelosi @POTUS #Unique #prayer rug with a #life story.
"Details click on the link below;… https://t.co/TTLFMIlrLmPlease sign and share #BanGreyhoundRacing #dogs #Greyhounds #YouBetTheyDie #AnimalAbuse #SaturdayMotivation… https://t.co/YpzFcDvN5T""I believe it's not the technology that changes the world. It's the dream behind the technology that changes the wo… https://t.co/oo9hsck0WzRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fidget find a home #Bridgend #Wales #dogs #dogsoftwitter  🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿""I believe it's not the technology that changes the world. It's the dream behind the technology that changes the wo… https://t.co/CQOamkgoPT""I believe it's not the technology that changes the world. It's the dream behind the technology that changes the wo… https://t.co/KggyzSJXNFRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @Cjlofus: @JohnnAEscobar Many things once appear impossible. But by breaking them down into smaller chunks they become achievable.

#sob…https://t.co/r1yKcI42gz 💘's #XRPchiz 
"I Feel like I know this Guy,  Thanks for Being There  Every Night Shouting BU… https://t.co/8pA6pLv4DxRT @The_Animal_Team: 🆘MISSING DINNINGTON NEWCASTLE NE13# Went #missing in fields in #Dinnington 7/4/21. https://t.co/rw6XkNMXF6 #dogs #dogs…Petotel app"
How to book a hosting service and add your pet information.
#قطط
#كلاب
#حيوانات_اليفه
#حيوانات
"#pets… https://t.co/8CCywgZdTfRT @shutdownBV: “I researched #GreyhoundRacing in depth, the more I learnt the more distressing it became.” Moe has been an ardent activist…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…Hey Everybody! Here's the verse of the day:"

"Fearing people is a dangerous trap, but trusting the Lord means safet… https://t.co/fYYUP406wK@weathernetwork @SaphiaTWN And if you want professional #Canadian confirmation of why #NationalHugYourDogDay is sel… https://t.co/uOTAnkbTCyRT @CaptainBadger79: Sami loves her hugs #NationalHugYourDogDay #dogsoftwitter #dog #dogs #bordercollie https://t.co/ztiRLawwHFRT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…RT @Rom_TAlan: #Resisters!  We MUST support @SenCortezMasto ... please follow, RT, support.  Please?
🌊😷#SaturdayThoughts #LGBTQ🏳️‍🌈#NOH8 #R…RT @RaptInteractive: ⚰👑 Spawning at the Tomb of King Mutt 👑⚰
Experience it on #Steam:
https://t.co/jnajQZUrJD

#sphinx #egyptian #pharaoh #…RT @GudulaPauli: With a little help from my friends by @claudiacane 
CLAUDIA CANE &amp; Band my magnificent cousin!

Great song particularly in…RT @ABiasedlaw: Two leading humanitarians of our times who work on child rights and empowerment. @achyuta_samanta @k_satyarthi Please be ou…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…RT @funnydo25814387: Luna was fatally shot while pursuing a suspect. Our hearts go out to her fellow officers — thank you for your service,…RT @harrypetsanis: Successful people get up everyday and repeat positive behaviors and actions. Unsuccessful people get up everyday and re…RT @gsrescueelite: Max is 5yrs old and this lad needs a home as his humans are emigrating. He is a very bright and keen lad who can live wi…RT @harrypetsanis: ""People spend more time avoiding their pain and running from their fears then they do healing and overcoming the dysfunc…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! "

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @STL__PITBULL: #Stocks #GME #AMC #BTC #TSLA #MakeMoney #IRA #BuyTheDip #Options #Crypto #Bets #WallStreetBets #Reddit #Invest #DiamondHa…RT @harrypetsanis: ""We don't make mistakes because we're human. We make mistakes because we make poor choices and have dysfunctional mindse…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @PierreHnoud: We die the moment we cease to expect anything from tomorrow.

Don’t you ever give up. ☝

Dare! Dream! Do!
🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟

#Leaders…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @TheViditsharma: True
#Dogs
#Puppies https://t.co/koGdcFV16Ukeep RT  for #Findlily  #MISSING  elderly #Dachshund #Wales @RSPCA_official  @WalesOnline  @radiowalesRT @Franki3W: #PadaSpiration #17
"You don’t save an image of #JaredPadalecki, the image of #JaredPadalecki saves you."

#Walker #WalkerFamily…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: All #dogs are instinctively heroes🐶💖
Saving lives is just what they do🤗
Now it's our turn🙏

Sign to #BanGreyhoundRacin…RT @LiftingHumanity: #InspirationElevatesHumanity
If it inspires me I do it
If it doesn't I don't
Meaningful simplified life?
"#inspirationa…RT @BettyBrigade: ""Today, focus on the positive."""

"#inspiration #motivation https://t.co/1UlwjQnHTzhappy birthday my son and my best friend! i love you completely and unconditionally, now and forever....💖🥰April, 1,… https://t.co/CbCgAcb86LDoes anybody else’s dog constantly put their toys under the settee on purpose and then bark incessantly until you c… https://t.co/FXPksIBueYRT @MarthaL60051332: And this is why I wrote Married to Merlot. If you have lived with someone who has had an #addiction, you will relate.…RT @harrypetsanis: ""Successful people get up everyday and repeat positive behaviors and actions. Unsuccessful people get up everyday and re…How silicon-based #life comes into being"

"#engineering #neuralnetwork #automation #DEVCommunity #Programming… https://t.co/J3OKiJpHFuTired boy, mummy’s boy #dogsoftwitter #furbaby #dogs #mydog https://t.co/a6YZPurJU3RT @RGisanintwari: #Happy 64th Birthday, you're in Heaven for sure, #Late Maj.Gen. #Fred Gisa Rwigyema! You're Proud of this Country Up the…RT @Eli_Krumova: How silicon-based #life comes into being"

#engineering #neuralnetwork #automation #DEVCommunity #Programming #100DaysOfCod…RT @Eli_Krumova: How silicon-based #life comes into being

"#engineering #neuralnetwork #automation #DEVCommunity #Programming #100DaysOfCod…RT @isaacmaweu: 4 NEVERS  that you should never forget in #life #IsaacTheGreat #ThinkBigSundayWithMarsha https://t.co/tP8Y0EYeNK#onlyfansbabe webcam #happy https://t.co/TgNoyif6NNRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @bilal4382: Looking forward for happiness."

#motivation #happiness #inspirational #lockdown #COVID19 #hardtime Happy 5th #JOY #Traveller…🆘️🆘️STOLEN PUPPIES🆘️🆘️🆘️RT @BreakingHaHa: #BREAKING Dog can’t wait to see her owner. 🥰 #dogs #love #animals 

More vids 👉 @CatchingPlus 

" https://t.co/vFKl67OvSA“Nothing has happened in the past; it happened in the Now. Nothing will ever happen in the future; it will happen i… https://t.co/u8pj3tHIwDRT @The_Animal_Team: Puppy #stolen from #Bisley #Surrey area, after two men went to the owner's home. Chipped. I am really having to bite m…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Vijay find a home #Shropshire "

"Sweet Collie aged 2-5,  loves human company and is looking for an a…RT @drlepora: ""Life is not fair; get used to it."""
.
.
.
.
.
.
#drlepora #billgates #life #reality #leadership #happiness #liofe #love #mind…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…#Thebook The Religion of god (Deen E Ilahi) by HDE #Goharshahi can be read for free . #Deen #Religion #Ishq #Love… https://t.co/nWZZ1RQ5XLGo ahead for to achieve goals not just sit back at home and just think . Just put some more efforts .

#goals… https://t.co/UsXyuDAOdrRT @Ranal55: The future seems to be coming more quickly every day.

#quote #future #life #SaturdaySunshine https://t.co/Ro6UTwMBR6RT @johnwinters14: @AnimalsSerious Heartbreaking. We must end all #killshelters Where is the #humanity in these shelters? 
"Please stop kill…RT @Corsiar9: MISSING DOG ICE !!! PLEASE HELP HIM GET BACK HOME SAFELY !!! https://t.co/nIdYNRvNM8RT @birdwriter7: #farmanimals #teacuppigs #pets #adoption #youngreaders #earlyreaders #picturebooks #emotions #friendship #antibullying #fa…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀""If you want a thing done well, do it yourself."" #quote #quotes #inspiration #motivation #true #quoteofthedayRT @Berti_and_Ernie: Let me cheer you up!  smile #dogs https://t.co/dC1xzp4VmgRT @belabab: 🆘11 MARCH 2021 RUBY #ScanMe @sussex_police "
#STOLEN BY MAN IN RED PICKUP REG NO: Y425 WGJ
(SEE PHOTO) 
Liver &amp; White English S…RT @NikkiKnightly: Love these pics
#streetfashion #knee #eyewear #dress #happy #kicks #eyewearstyle #eyewearfashion #happytime #happyness #…Another Client Testimonial!!
Read what Olga says about Energy Medicine Healers service! 🌌
"For more detailed informa… https://t.co/EMfckjPoLMRT @JMBrady360: The J-Man Show#199: Urban Legends Night (Uncut) #storytelling #humor #comedy #darkcomedy #j360radio #j360productions #podca…RT @BobBurg: The B4 &amp; after photos are amazing! I'm SO proud of you for what you've accomp thus far, doing this only out of your love 4 the…For anyone who is following the call and feels totally misunderstood a quick word of encouragement today.… https://t.co/uU7IG9zEEhRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gala find a home #Glasgow  #Scotland 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿RT @Rom_TAlan: The Grim Reaper, who eliminated independence by manipulating the court selection, has not sense of honor, integrity, or sham…Want to know the most common failures on USB drives? Broken tips or bent ports, all data loss can be recovered. Cli… https://t.co/eFvgNybd8HRT @dogfans4: Weekend mood"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📸: insta/pepperminidachshund https://t.co/tWzCEpeDS2RT @mapleveewesem: 🐾💕🐾 #NationalHugYourDogDay ? 
Isn't every day a day to hug your pup(s)? I don't need a day to remind me to do that. I ho…A good motto for life:

"Acta Non Verba - Actions, not words."

#quote #MotivationalQuotes #SaturdayMotivation #life #goalsRT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…Cornwall is playing #Numberella! Are you? 

🖐️

"#buildingbetterbrains #connect #edchat #edutwitter #fluency #gifted… https://t.co/TD0FfMAoagOur #prayers and #condolences goes out to the #family and #friends. R.I.H.P You will be missed @ East Chicago, Indi… https://t.co/ZVFPpc8tIART @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @Cjlofus: @official_twords Many things once appear impossible. But by breaking them down into smaller chunks they become achievable."

"#s…RT @TiaJack17: Tia Jack &amp; Liquorice love to snuggle up together 🥰🐶🐶🐱 night night everyone 💤💤💤 #dogs  #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter #cats #…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @APAofMO: Will you be celebrating #NationalHugYourDogDay by giving your furry friend some extra love? Show us who’s getting your hugs to…RT @Eli_Krumova: How silicon-based #life comes into being"

#engineering #neuralnetwork #automation #DEVCommunity #Programming #100DaysOfCod…RT @Eli_Krumova: How silicon-based #life comes into being

#engineering #neuralnetwork #automation #DEVCommunity #Programming #100DaysOfCod…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @Eli_Krumova: How silicon-based #life comes into being

#engineering #neuralnetwork #automation #DEVCommunity #Programming #100DaysOfCod…RT @Eli_Krumova: How silicon-based #life comes into being

#engineering #neuralnetwork #automation #DEVCommunity #Programming #100DaysOfCod…RT @belabab: 💥#STOLEN 17-09-18 
💥 #SPROCKER #SPANIEL 
💥 WILLOW 💥
💥 SPAYED &amp; MICROCHIPPED
💥 #DOG NAPPED FROM SECURE GARDEN
💥#SHROPSHIRE💥
💥 2…RT @emel0371: I say hello to a new week with the magnificent dance of the birds.👋🕊🕊🕊🕊

Reels video by Claire Droppert ( IG claireonline) 💯…#Readabooktogether #familytime #sharing #kindness #friiends #family #growingreaders #emotions #love #kindness… https://t.co/l2AZr5WGcPRT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGlRT @dogsfootprint: Nitro is a big 13 today 🐶❤️

Via: TiiskyDE

"#dog #dogs #puppy #dogoftheday #cutedog https://t.co/h0g7W7QC6gRT @Avargas2403: #Gratitude 💙  ""The beauty of a the person, is not measured by the way you dress, talk or walk, but by the way you love, he…RT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…RT @SGWME: Please RT!RT @lijanaskottowe: Another Client Testimonial!!"
Read what Olga says about Energy Medicine Healers service! 🌌
For more detailed information…I love the way i see the world ... But i doesn't know how is looking at me ... Still i don't care #selfminded #life #findinghappinessOn an adventure with my #1 girl.

Can you guess where we are off to?

@alii.smithhh #ohana #adventure #getoutside… https://t.co/F0Niw1YfivRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @CatsAndDogsTips: A Pet Version Of HAPPY BIRTHDAY Only Cats And Dogs Can Understand! https://t.co/PhjNDaWlw4 #cats #dogs #caturday #cats…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu"

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…Popped into @Jollyestweets and they’re still running their charity campaign for @McrDogsHome - Buy a dog a can of f… https://t.co/hpoLORcsF5RT @birdwriter7: #farmanimals #teacuppigs #pets #adoption #youngreaders #earlyreaders #picturebooks #emotions #friendship #antibullying #fa…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Doris (Doll) find a home #ESSEX 
"Lovely Shih Tzu aged 2-5, could live with older teens or adults an…RT @Snishaa2: Good Night to All My ℒℴѴℯly"
Friends👫
"Thank You All For Your ℒฺℴฺνℯฺ, Likes,"
"Rtt, Following &amp; Supporrt This Week🌸"
"ℒℴѵℯ You All…RT @WillowAssist: Thanks @Blackhap90y172 for the Retweet 💚 did you see this video on finding hope in the chaos, called Motivation For Times…RT @MiriMission: Nessy is here and she is looking for her forever home. "

Isn't she adorable?!

"If you would like to be considered, please…RT @LiftingHumanity: #InspirationElevatesHumanity"
If it inspires me I do it
If it doesn't I don't
Meaningful simplified life?
"#inspirationa…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…#Life becomes a masterpiece when we... https://t.co/o5XccQIm7N via: https://t.co/mgHeSZCct1RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 If you are a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC &amp; can share your home, 1 of these 4 sweet &amp; beautiful #dogs needs you to…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…Everyday there is #news to remind us that #Life is truly a #gift we take for granted for most of our time 😕… https://t.co/Jc91LBiDbgRT @joelle47019650: For love of dogs "
Please sign and share the Greyhound #Petition 

https://t.co/u4cpzdDfFy

"#BanGreyhoundRacing #mickthe…RT @Kraturescuedog: Meet my family! Left to right. Paqo, Polo then me! Raffy my younger brother and Maia the wolfdog #family #cute #dogs we…Opportunities meets preparedness. Remember the boy's scout motto- ""Be prepared"". Always be ready in mind and body t… https://t.co/ytl2LcdQS7RT @LadyChessington: Popped into @Jollyestweets and they’re still running their charity campaign for @McrDogsHome - Buy a dog a can of food…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Violet went #missing on 8/4/21 from #AtkinsonFarm #ChorleyNewRoad #Bolton #BL1 area. #OldeEnglishBulldog Chipped and…RT @AdoptionsUk: TEAR JERKER please retweet, urgent FOSTER HOME wanted for Zak #BERKSHIRE "
"Affectionate Rottweiler aged 9, looking for adul…RT @bulldog_crazy: How cute??"
"#englishbulldog #dogs #Bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #puppy https://t.co/LKnnTdOxowRT @gsrescueelite: Milly is just a year old and she can live with older kids and other #dogs, Milly was a little unsure when she arrived wi…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! "

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @dogsfootprint: Nitro is a big 13 today 🐶❤️

Via: TiiskyDE

#dog #dogs #puppy #dogoftheday #cutedog https://t.co/h0g7W7QC6gRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀https://t.co/wX97Awomyj! Come visit today for all your pets needs! 

#petsupplies #pets #dogsofinstagram #dogs… https://t.co/eLOLBFhs1PRT @thecrowdview: #Life becomes a masterpiece when we... https://t.co/o5XccQIm7N via: https://t.co/mgHeSZCct1Tips on cleaning your dog’s ears to avoid ear infections. https://t.co/lOWPCrVENp #dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitterThe secret of success in life is for a man to be ready for his opportunity when it comes.
"- Benjamin Disraeli… https://t.co/TiOWpEDiZX#photography #babies Round Shaped Men's Sunglasses https://t.co/Aaxc7upLAu https://t.co/V6OL9ERoQyRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…Please RT to save a life!RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
"#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @gsrescueelite: Max is 5yrs old and this lad needs a home as his humans are emigrating. He is a very bright and keen lad who can live wi…RT @CoffeeMugStore: New product drop! You've got to put in the work and drink coffee if you want to get anywhere in life 😉 #coffee #WorkHar…RT @TiaJack17: Guarding the yard 🐶🐶 #dogs #dogsoftwitter https://t.co/Sc5fEvygH6“Life is about not knowing, having to change, taking the moment and making the best of it...”   "
- Gilda Radner… https://t.co/vaa7IcjGQE🐾💖😎 Aussie Photo of the Day!
Submit your BEST Aussie photos:
https://t.co/EhdRQJ4BnZ

Get the Guide To Australian S… https://t.co/5KjgTsMNuxRT @DogLostUK: URGENT! #dogsoftwitter #Dogs #Cats 

"We need 1 single database (NOT 15) for registering microchips and we need vets to start…You can't get ""What You Want"""
"Until,"
"you don't sit down with ""What You Have"""

#MotivationalQuotes #motivation… https://t.co/Soa0gJUZ2PRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @DicksonTelfer: I've started doing a podcast with @DRMotivation1 about positive stuff and things. If ye fancy giving it a lug, here it i…RT @AdoptionsUk: Urgent retweet please to help Jessica find a home #BRIDGEND #WALES 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿"
AGED 14 Looking for a quiet home ok with childr…RT @MischiefAndFun: You never lose Friends.
Real ones will always stay - no matter what
"and the fakes, you don't need anyways."
"#Friends #To…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #Hampshire“Let us not only fall in love, let us live life as if life is our love affair.”― Debasish Mridha #motivation #quotes https://t.co/tCEyfQCUUERT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…RT @birdwriter7: #farmanimals #teacuppigs #pets #adoption #youngreaders #earlyreaders #picturebooks #emotions #friendship #antibullying #fa…https://t.co/wX97Awomyj! Come visit today for all your pets needs! "

"#petsupplies #pets #dogsofinstagram #dogs… https://t.co/7gMdVHiRBWRT @Cadhla_L: For my lovely #Twitter #friends.. fantastic, real people to #follow // follow back! Great streams &amp; chat :&gt;"
"#KindnessMatters…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…Cheddar is adoptable! 🧀"

"Learn more about this sweet, high energy, lovable pup here ➡️ https://t.co/JU13V9kM0m… https://t.co/Gs58fT5HQiWeekend vibes 💯💯"

@dereklipp_ 

"#buddys #bud #drinking #alcohol #toofunny #funnyaf #humor #hilarious #friends https://t.co/nbwmu6pZvuYour shoe? No, I haven’t seen it, why do you ask? #dogs"
Check out https://t.co/TkbiNzam10 for more good dogs 🐶 https://t.co/Ron1KmMy5dRT @ronocole: Unpacking. 😫😫😫😫                   #LIFE 
" #spring #ATL #selfie #body #goals #blackbeard #beardgang #shred #ronocole #roncole…Out with the old dragon, in with the new. My little boy almost exclusively likes to play with dragons half his size… https://t.co/HkydTQ4flSRT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!"
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGlBroad with the bikes..... #lifeRT @gsrescueelite: Misha is just a year old and already had 3 homes ! A very bright and high energy girl who can live with older kids but c…RT @gsrescueelite: Flash ( Ahh ) is 4yrs old and has been with us since Sept 17, he can live with older kids and other #dogs but he does ha…RT @isaacmaweu: 4 NEVERS  that you should never forget in #life #IsaacTheGreat #ThinkBigSundayWithMarsha https://t.co/tP8Y0EYeNKRT @scubapupRiver: Just a load @AubieRoverXXX daddy left in me before bed. #couple #pan #openrelationship #happy #ftmxxx https://t.co/Y0i1n…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! "

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @The_Animal_Team: 🆘MISSING DINNINGTON NEWCASTLE NE13# Went #missing in fields in #Dinnington 7/4/21. https://t.co/rw6XkNMXF6 #dogs #dogs…RT @GreenMissamou: Freedom is being yourself without permission. 
"#Motivation #stayfit #FitnessModel #thinkbig #dailyworkout https://t.co/t…RT @BethFratesMD: We have the ability to be what we want to be each and every new day. We can't control what happens to us. But, we can con…GPS Smart Pet Locator REMOTE VOICE CALLING!!! at https://t.co/wX97Awomyj! Come visit today for all your pets needs!… https://t.co/3stonz1rS1RT @Tinagchr: Caturday with Maru😽😼😺🙀 #HappyCaturday #CaturdayEve #SaturdayMotivation #SaturdayFun #Motivation #CatsOfTwitter https://t.co/M…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 If you are a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC &amp; can share your home, 1 of these 4 sweet &amp; beautiful #dogs needs you to…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @belabab: #PLEASE GIVE BACK #STOLEN TED!! 💔😣💔😣  #Dog #dogs #pettheft #DogTheft #BringTedHome #DogTheftCrisis #dogsoftwitterRT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…Get my art printed on awesome products. Support me at Redbubble #RBandME:  https://t.co/8lZlPgp3Eq #findyourthing… https://t.co/SG0m9gvUXn#Brandy made me laugh so hard! I have wind chimes hanging outside the window. The wind blows them, making a light o… https://t.co/8Lw9b1q0JwHonor integrity honesty #virtue #life #loveRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…This is what racing is all about. #Emotions #joy #proudofhishorse @AintreeRaces @itvracing @RTEracing @GowranPark1RT @belabab: #STOLEN ⚠️ #Suffolk ⚠️ #Spaniel WHERE IS SHE NOW? @RSPCA_Norwich @rspcaeast @NorfolkPolice @SuffolkPolice @eastanglia #Dog #do…Vegan lunch. Veggie patties &amp; chips alongside dried fruit. #foodstagram #food #foodie #love #live #life #oragnic… https://t.co/4geFg9V0fHRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bella find a home #Manchester #DogsofTwittterRT @natehacketthope: Failure is not when you've failed. Failure is when you think, ""Because I have failed in the past, that will be my futu…Get out today...get some sun! #Happy #internationalsiblingsday shop @amerikaijucomic link in bio @ Pasadena, Califo… https://t.co/RtKbxD6QAbRT @funnydo25814387: I've never seen a dog this happy before."
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinsta 
https://t.co/zqVQitk4HQRT @KariJoys: Think #HAPPY thoughts! #JoyTrain &gt;https://t.co/X7w2jFypNP #Peace #JoY #BeHappy   RT @DadiJanki https://t.co/eP0yQeXmncRT @nickatnitetv: What's one word that can set off an entire fandom? #Pivot #Friends https://t.co/jyG5ubwGEiRT @ByTheShoreArts: 🔥 Almost SOLD Out! 
"#katespade #SALE #dogs #goldendoodle #frenchie #Kate https://t.co/43SExf8wju via @EtsyRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Take care of your #friends folks, they're your chosen family!"
#ChosenFamilyRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to find the owner of this dog FOUND #BEDFORD MK43... NO TAG &amp; NO CHIP 🇬🇧
https://t.co/lSkLaqgWvP
165388
"Nam…RT @ILovemy58919370: RT @funnydo25814387: She was a Pit Bull and she was ""ugly"" and ""unappealing"" to shelter visitors. She would sit in a c…RT @thistleflat: #GoodMorning #UKGiftHour! Hope you're all feeling good today, but just in case you need a bit of #Motivation ❤️"
"https://t.…RT @harrypetsanis: ""We weren't created to please everyone, serve everyone, take advice from everyone, and live in a manner that benefits ev…RT @TaniaMariaWelch: 3 years ago today my lovely girl Brandy left for Rainbow Bridge 💞💞💞🌈 xx #dogsoftwitter #dogs @dogcelebration #Boxer 🐾🐾…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️RT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGlJust bought a new dress. I am not a big flower pattern person. This dress was calling to me. How do I look??… https://t.co/TAqi7JFGz4Morning is always smarter than night...

#Quotes #Twitter #Fortnite #cryptocurrency #life 
@greek_quotes14 
"@CitationsPodRT @harrypetsanis: ""No one has ever been inspired by hearing what someone else isn't doing. Criticizing and pointing out the flaws and issu…RT @ScarlettBeagle: ""Can you see my laboratory tattoo number? Thank you @MpHendrick for signing #EDM250, for a Govt mandated hearing to sto…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gil find a home #Carmarthenshire #Wales 🍀 https://t.co/l33fd5bY64RT @MiriMission: Nessy is here and she is looking for her forever home. "

Isn't she adorable?!

"If you would like to be considered, please…RT @The_Animal_Team: 💥NOT ANGUS💥#Found #StondonMassey #Brentwood #Essex 10/4/21. Now at Wallace Kennels.  📞01277 821032 with information on…New #sales #video from @gitomer - The weekend - what's the winning strategy? #selling #insight #motivation https://t.co/ZwcyJBUEn9On set #Life official video shoot from d stables of Exjam Records... https://t.co/29NGJWT3e0RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @PatGriffith1: Good #timemanagement can help you to work smarter. #motivation  https://t.co/POzjewxYxE https://t.co/sZq7kWu1RuSelf love is the best love. Body positivity all day. #Blacklivesmatter #fitness #bodybuilder #ambition #body… https://t.co/65SzRbM7xERT @PrinceIntoAKing: Self love is the best love. Body positivity all day. #Blacklivesmatter #fitness #bodybuilder #ambition #body #workout…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @B2B_SalesTips: New #sales #video from @gitomer - The weekend - what's the winning strategy? #selling #insight #motivation https://t.co/…RT @gede_prama: To take good care... #Peace #gedeprama #bali #beauty #happy #healthy #holy #innerharmony #JoyTrain"

Photo courtesy: Pintere…RT @Alfierescue1: Look at lovely happy Nessy! Please help to find her a home 💜💜 https://t.co/VIcxFmhsKERT @birdwriter7: #farmanimals #teacuppigs #pets #adoption #youngreaders #earlyreaders #picturebooks #emotions #friendship #antibullying #fa…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jonathan find a home #SUSSEX 
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter  🍀⭐️🍀⭐️🍀RT @ScarlettBeagle: ""Can you see my laboratory tattoo number? Thank you @MpHendrick for signing #EDM250, for a Govt mandated hearing to sto…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bella find a home #Manchester #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/FgjO7FPBfsRT @56blackcat: If you haven’t been following "
"the story of when Baby Dog came to live with Malcolm the Cat, you’re missing out! "

It’s bee…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gala find a home #Glasgow  #Scotland 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿RT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…Amazon Today´s Deals: https://t.co/D4rIwU5gUZ #followback #funny #photography #pets #friends #love #photooftheday… https://t.co/MldiLaERCKRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Suzie and Murphy find a home #Edinburgh #Lothians #Scotland 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿
"'Active wee dogs' aged 12, can…RT @JeffreyKlarik: It happened and it was everything and more @FriendsTV #Friends #FriendsReunion https://t.co/Z90ulYoc4SRT @_AnimalAdvocate: When #dogs are trained with live #animals it's not their fault🐇💔"

It's ours🤬

Until we #BanGreyhoundRacing✒️
"https://t…RT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3@weathernetwork @SaphiaTWN Next year, #dog owners, make it about #dogs &amp; not about your neediness. Stop… https://t.co/OihQfPi8eURT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 If you are a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC &amp; can share your home, 1 of these 4 sweet &amp; beautiful #dogs needs you to…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…Cheer up everyone! 😅 It's H the Comedian's cheer up time on Youtube! 📺"

The Saturday Cheer up with H the Comedian 😃… https://t.co/ejdAh2Lfrg#dogs Video links to DOG BEHAVIORS #dog #behaviors
"https://t.co/wUIPspkI6mWhere ever we go, there will be a dog willing to follow us unswervingly! #dog #friends https://t.co/f30s9iOL3vRT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu"

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJPainting of the day #gstaffcraft #artworks #artistsontwitter #artcraft 
"#artlovers #kawaii #熊猫 #漫画 #絵画 #illustrator… https://t.co/DAZYwyOmaCIf you look closely, failure creates opportunity. #motivation #success  https://t.co/MlT0lekCTF https://t.co/jtmI1oL0UjRT @The_Animal_Team: 💥NOT ANGUS💥#Found #StondonMassey #Brentwood #Essex 10/4/21. Now at Wallace Kennels.  📞01277 821032 with information on…RT @Caluvsdogs: How to stop your dog from Digging https://t.co/aztvBppsV7 #diggingdog #digging #dogs #dogsoftwitter https://t.co/XMNOvkjGoyRT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…Do you have a gay family member?"
https://t.co/74O93Smo0c

#gay #lgbt #lgbtq #bl #boys #girls #life #vote #gaylifeRT @infoCrystalAura: These are my books which are  available on Amazon.
The New Earth Energy &amp; Inspirational Guidance Poems &amp; Quotes. 

"#au…RT @gsrescueelite: Madge is coming up to 2yrs old and this sweet girl does everything at 100mph and is always entertaining, she can live wi…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Violet went #missing on 8/4/21 from #AtkinsonFarm #ChorleyNewRoad #Bolton #BL1 area. #OldeEnglishBulldog Chipped and…RT @infoCrystalAura: Happy Saturday everyone."
Have a great day! 
Be HAPPY 
Be POSTIVE 
&amp; SMILE....😁

#SaturdayMotivation #PositiveVibes #Sm…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀RT @AnimalAid_India: This is Simon whose ear wound was getting worse although a kind neighbour lady had been trying to heal the infection b…🔴LIVE - TWITCHH Y U TAKE MY JAMZZZ?!🔴
https://t.co/PJL8y2oNLf #ApexLegends 
#doggo #cam #2020  #apex #twitch… https://t.co/Sbvo8n0jhJRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…Problems with your motivation?"
Try that one😆

"#motivation #animals #cycling #sports #Bears #fun #humor #quote #memes https://t.co/YaLJccw5T5Welcome to the team Christina! We're happy to have you with us and excited to watch you grow! #welcome #team… https://t.co/5jJ91yEUhjRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT: If you are on #tiktok #FollowMe @tiktok_us @tiktokcreators @TikTokInvestors @tiktok_uk @rtItBot @kathyireland… https://t.co/OkbmeBoUm5Having good friends are in blessings of Allah.. ❤️"
"#FriendsRT @gsrescueelite: Max is 5yrs old and this lad needs a home as his humans are emigrating. He is a very bright and keen lad who can live wi…Omgoodness wish someone missed me that much lol!!!RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
"#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ https://t.co/NhpP1P834fReunited &amp; it feels so good 😊❤️🍕🎶 #MellowMushroom #WaterfordLakes #friends #reunited #togetheragain #lovethem… https://t.co/gM0cLN88AY#blogging #blog #Bloggers #bloggersconnect #blogpost #WordPress #life #gift #honeymoon #Special #Website #articles… https://t.co/1zHJRToKepGuide to Real Change #life https://t.co/LWqjsOJkAh via @YouTubeRT @harrypetsanis: ""Successful people get up everyday and repeat positive behaviors and actions. Unsuccessful people get up everyday and re…RT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3RT @esraafeps: nice idea 💡 "
for #mumz  #coupon 

#mumzworld AN141 

#mamas_and_papas AC85 

#patpat 8J52XR

#babies #momlife #حوامل #اطفال…Find out how shifting focus can help you find #happiness. #motivation  https://t.co/HmHJdyNOHf https://t.co/Y79XNVcMTiWhat would your #life look like if you knew you could not #FAIL?
"https://t.co/1j1LY0XNpLRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFBitcoin’s comeback, XRP doubles in a week, Coinbase’s big profits: Hodler’s Digest, April 4–10"
#followme… https://t.co/umWciVhZXRRT @ACIM_YouTube: TODAY All-Day Movie Workshop with David Hoffmeister &amp; Living Miracles - Living Miracles https://t.co/cUJN6TvybM

"#ACIM #A…People ruin their lives by their own stupidity,"
    so why does God always get blamed?

Proverbs 19:3

"#life#canadagoose know they are losing customers people don't want to support this vile company they torture animals rip… https://t.co/1ZklxNhWQfRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️RT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3I want one. 💗RT @funnydo25814387: Perfect place for a nap"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/7pojyz83yqGod stands with those who have no standing. #lifeRT @mattyrock2k: Me : Yeah, to be honest, I’m not really a Crocs kinda guy. "
"Also me : ..... Well Played Crocs, well played. Awesomeness. @…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @bepawsm: It's a #NationalHugYourDogDay, but if you don't have a dog, give a hug to your cat, hamster, parrot or ferret."

"Make every day…RT @ScarlettBeagle: @HeidiBearKaye1 @seasylvia2005 @rickygervais @JaneFallon ""When everyone backs a top science hearing to prove the experi…RT @doglovers2020: 😍👀"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter 
"📹: insta/molly_theblondie https://t.co/H7H9GQV2IUFor that reason, singles should take friendships seriously and should not take their friends for granted.… https://t.co/xWnSvB565XRT @mean_neen: Let’s see you pass too close with this guy/gal in the back giving you the evils.RT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: Most #dogs become family but greyhounds become a regularly broken cog in a massive money-making machine🐕💔"

Sign to #Ba…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @korayguerel: Friends...
#photography #fotografie #art #photoart #friendship #animals #Human #dogs https://t.co/zPMw9BdctqBeautiful photo Linda❤️📸❤️ Hope you had a lovely day 👍 Night night have a beautiful sleep my friend ❤️💤💤💤😍IF YOU NEED HELP
"The National Suicide Prevention Hotline is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The free h… https://t.co/MLFVhTRwMD1st time playing this...HELP  https://t.co/37dnoxqQf4 ⁦@GamerGalsRT⁩ ⁦⁦@GamerGrowth⁩ ⁦@WorldsSpotlight⁩ #apex… https://t.co/ZudByK9bsQRT @belabab: WHO IS TEARING DOWN THE #posters of #STOLEN Dexter IN #HOLTSPUR #Beaconsfield!?? 😡😡😡 #Dog #dogs #PetTheft #DogTheft #DogTheftC…A very tired dog, movie time and wine 🐶🎬🍷 #dogsoftwitter #dogs #movietime #winetime #Feet #up #SaturdayNight https://t.co/ilaG8hZUAPRT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu"

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @belabab: WHO IS TEARING DOWN THE #posters of #STOLEN Dexter IN #HOLTSPUR #Beaconsfield!?? 😡😡😡 #Dog #dogs #PetTheft #DogTheft #DogTheftC…RT @BearBertthe: '... And today I follow his footsteps and stand where greatness once stood'"

#dogsoftwitter #dogs #Dog #smileforbert ♥ htt…RT @ucfitnessappare: Cute Girls Ripped Boyfriend Jeans Plus Size Cartoon Pattern Embroidery

Available for Purchase at https://t.co/NAxp5Tk…RT @archer_general: Problems with your motivation?
Try that one😆

#motivation #animals #cycling #sports #Bears #fun #humor #quote #memes ht…Embrace your passion and allow your strengths to grow. Your confidence in your abilities will naturally grow as wel… https://t.co/7BEpC0LxwvIF YOU NEED HELP
"If you or someone you know needs help, the national sexual assault hotline can be reached at 800.6… https://t.co/9R0vOi1CHVRT @belabab: 🆘11 MARCH 2021 RUBY #ScanMe @sussex_police "
#STOLEN BY MAN IN RED PICKUP REG NO: Y425 WGJ
(SEE PHOTO) 
"Liver &amp; White English S…RT @ErikGsn: Rainy And Busy Friday With Afternoon Views - IAAC #366 - Actifit: April 9, 2021"

https://t.co/JtulnyVaEJ

"#IAmAliveChallenge #…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…RT @The_Animal_Team: Elderly #GermanShepherd found collapsed in #Kimberley #Notts 7/4/21, &amp; not chipped."
If you have any information please…RT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGlSign today to help save dogs in Mauritius https://t.co/x1XOsCCTTl #dogs #animalrescue #AnimalCrueltyCall us today! #NLR we have been here since 2000!! Tearing up the Metroplex and putting it back up even better!… https://t.co/PzKU9f1CusThe neighborhood crew wanted to wish @KassidyHudson11 a great prom! Love this crew and the adventures they have! So… https://t.co/aRASH4nnduRT @ILovemy58919370: RT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
"https:/…RT @bepawsm: It's a #NationalHugYourDogDay, but if you don't have a dog, give a hug to your cat, hamster, parrot or ferret."

"Make every day…BAAAAAYCON!!! Nomanomnom #bacon #dogs #drool #rottie #germanshepherd #doguedebordeaux  #mixedbreedsofinstagram… https://t.co/58YzPtkcoqRT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3RT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3RT @AKCHercules: Please help if you can, we did! ❤️ @nuggetsdrooling @RidleyHowell @casie190 @abby_bulldog @itsSirGustafson @Catsemail @elv…....You can change what you DO....You can't change what you WANT.... #Facts #Life #SaturdayThoughtsRT @bulldog_crazy: How cute??"
"#englishbulldog #dogs #Bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #puppy https://t.co/LKnnTdOxowRT @zombie_btkay: 1st time playing this...HELP  https://t.co/37dnoxqQf4 ⁦@GamerGalsRT⁩ ⁦⁦@GamerGrowth⁩ ⁦@WorldsSpotlight⁩ #apex #gamergirl…RT @FiveFitness: Your body will only do what the mind tells it to. If you don't believe you can do something, then it will never happen. Se…💌 Send a message card:⁣⁣"
𝐈 𝐒𝐨𝐥𝐞𝐦𝐧𝐥𝐲 𝐒𝐰𝐞𝐚𝐫 𝐘𝐨𝐮 𝐀𝐫𝐞 𝐓𝐡𝐞 𝐁𝐞__𝐭 𝐌𝐨𝐦 ⁣
"with Scripted ""Love"" Necklace⁣⁣⁣"
⬇️𝐂𝐥𝐢𝐜𝐤 𝐇𝐞𝐫𝐞⁣⁣⁣⬇️… https://t.co/cbnV7Udch5Starchy (adventure time fans yo haha) is the newest member of our family. via /r/labradoodles… https://t.co/GfBPiC19l8RT @elvisbulldoguk1: Hi my friends if you can help please do and retweet 🙏💖🙏What is happening to me a dog just howled at me and I howled back...?? WHAT IS HAPPENING #dogs #howlingRT @dinnydot: Out and about with my friends 🤗
Masks off for photographs 😂
#SaturdayNight #friends https://t.co/REYvT1s0XzAmazon Today´s Deals: https://t.co/85H0wJUFME #followback #funny #photography #pets #friends #love #photooftheday… https://t.co/EHc2QquXxCHappiness is not a destination👉
It is a way of life🤩

"#beezzly #beezzly_life #life #qoutes #style #countryhouse… https://t.co/XZLOhJjBuMRT @masonisgolden: I JUST HIT 600 FOLLOWERS! 🎊 I can’t believe, me, the little golden doodle, can make so many friends on here! I love you…Taking care of my body &amp; energy.. ❤️🙏 #HappySaturday "
#selflove 
#selfcare 
#motivation 
#body 
#SingleAndMingle https://t.co/zd6qQTSyCMRT @CEOAzarel: My thoughts 💭 exactly! 

"Don’t worry 😉 about how long it may take, just get started! "

#beinspired #motivation #quoteoftheda…The Pragmatic Party Voting bloc
it is the ONLY peaceful long term solution.
2022 &amp; Beyond!
"https://t.co/NQQtvjf81Q… https://t.co/iNcLs1YApQA personal vision statement can be a powerful guide in several areas of life. #selfimprovement #motivation… https://t.co/zzI92qfi1mRT @Alfierescue1: Look at lovely happy Nessy! Please help to find her a home 💜💜 https://t.co/VIcxFmhsKERT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @gina_emmanuel: Use your HQ this life na per-head #WeMove #life #loveyourself https://t.co/XfxFWBvpeiRT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! "

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @The_Animal_Team: #Labrador #puppies #stolen from #Galston #EastAyrshire overnight 9/10 April. 📞01560321903. #dogs #dogsoftwitter #stole…RT @The_Animal_Team: 💥NOT ANGUS💥#Found #StondonMassey #Brentwood #Essex 10/4/21. Now at Wallace Kennels.  📞01277 821032 with information on…RT @Berti_and_Ernie: Where ever we go, there will be a dog willing to follow us unswervingly! #dog #friends https://t.co/f30s9iOL3vLET US KNOW! We love our followers and any feedback! #cusebrunchclub #local #brunch #Syracuse #deals #bottomless… https://t.co/1e0dS0xwDNGreat read here, learn about a #scientist who was instrumental in the #COVID19 #vaccine #Life for this 66 year old… https://t.co/Y09kn7unHKRT @10_Ilovedogs: 😍👀"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter 
📹: insta/molly_theblondie https://t.co/aDUfH5OkOERT @MiriMission: Nessy is here and she is looking for her forever home. 

Isn't she adorable?!

"If you would like to be considered, please…Most everybody has a question for God, maybe a point to make, maybe a fear to address. Do this: Take a bible, along… https://t.co/7LHTnAl73GRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️RT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️RT @DisabledAnimals: Another 100 Dogs and Cats neutered by the @MiriMission Borneon Team with a TNRM Project in collaboration with @SPCAKK.…📷 How To Improve Your Language Learning Results With Whole-Brain Learning Methods According to the Ebbinghaus Forge… https://t.co/u6k8FHsfqBRT @elvisbulldoguk1: Hi my friends if you can help please do and retweet 🙏💖🙏 https://t.co/NKnvBnBUYrRT @Patrici56306746: Having a grand time https://t.co/4vxsmBBLvcRT @PlaceKais: How many goldens is too many?"
There is no such thing🤣

(max.and.finn IG)
#dogcelebration 
#weekendsmiles #grc
"#dogs https://…RT @harrypetsanis: ""People spend more time avoiding their pain and running from their fears then they do healing and overcoming the dysfunc…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: #Dogs can splash for longer than it takes you to sign😂💖"
And they all think ending #AnimalCruelty is a splashing idea!🤗…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀RT @DisabledAnimals: #ThoughtForTheDay 

'Dogs using wheels and prosthetics can live as good a life as a fully able bodied dog.'

"Please he…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @Eli_Krumova: How silicon-based #life comes into being"

"#engineering #neuralnetwork #automation #DEVCommunity #Programming #100DaysOfCod…RT @The_Animal_Team: 🆘MISSING DINNINGTON NEWCASTLE NE13# Went #missing in fields in #Dinnington 7/4/21. https://t.co/rw6XkNMXF6 #dogs #dogs…Monday Inspiration: Manage Your Energy https://t.co/Dd1g3skUx8 #inspiration #motivation #personaldevelopment… https://t.co/RmmulPALmGWe should remember that just as a positive outlook on life can promote good health, so can everyday acts of kindnes… https://t.co/lEwcQE8AtTRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshirePeace My Beauties - Happy Saturday!"
"#enjoythemoments #life #sing #dance https://t.co/qUEtwEJGiERT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
"https://t.co/GlYK49APuDRT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3RT @crystalnapolit2: thanks kelly =)"
@NigamaRv @sevedabo @MQuigley1963 

Pink and Purple Bob 
FREE ebook🎁
ends Mon!!
Learning how to be kin…Where is you focus?
Drinks or Boats?
I see it all I want it all!!
Stay focused
"#boats #drinks #motivation… https://t.co/tJSKGaK2z7RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
"https://t.co/lXrQR4KX3xTwo priceless arts, one is Isparta carpet and the other is #Nft Token Art. An invaluable art."
"#NFTs #cryptocurrency… https://t.co/VAKDV6PoJp#ProsperityZen  #ZenInProsperity  #Motivation  #BobMarley  #Reggae  Please retweet if you agree w/these… https://t.co/uxKy5LdGiyRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bella find a home #Manchester #DogsofTwittterRT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…Happy Saturday!!! #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram #dogs #Beagle #Beaglemix #RoccoTheBeagleMix #AdoptDontShop… https://t.co/qBeux0aJJoRT @Shami14218146: #am offering body to body massage in jeddah"
#full body massage in jeddah
"#happy ending call me on 0590253342💕💕💕💋💋💋 https…Take all #risks, use all #opportunities, &amp; face all #fears. #Motivation #ThinkBIGSundayWithMarsha https://t.co/XDfl4hs0bS“She warned him not to be deceived by appearances, for beauty is found within.” Rosalind"
"#DisneyPlus #Disney… https://t.co/NaXHktm4fJRT @MarlinIsAGoodB1: I got to go in a rimver today! it was a lil scary an a lot of fun. i even swimmed a tiny bit when my Mama helmped me!…He who has imagination without learning has wings but no feet. -Joseph Joubert 🤔 #quote #motivation #inspirationRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️RT @Lauraa_E_Wilson: Did you ever see a dog smile?! Please share this around! If there is anyone out there who needs a smile, a chuckle or…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @DisabledAnimals: #ThoughtForTheDay "

'Dogs using wheels and prosthetics can live as good a life as a fully able bodied dog.'

Please he…RT @The_Animal_Team: 💥£2000 REWARD FOR SAFE RETURN💥
"Still #missingPippa #Newark #NG24 area, #Notts. Call 07866026343 with any information.…I’ve just begin to live my 2nd #LIFERT @dogfans4: This is pure joy!"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/DoZalzpjJk17 Effective Ways To Clear Your Stuffy Nose https://t.co/sBC1mJVFFL
#tagfire #lifestyle #healthcare #health #life… https://t.co/vWWGFYvxiHGet upto 12% #Returns per annum on the safest #commercial of #GreaterNoida West.
#advance #Payment of the returns… https://t.co/2NraGlULNuRT @tssorcinelli: Volume up and brace yourself 💙💙💙 Happy #Sunday everyone #ocean 🌊 #blue #summer #TodayShow #sandybeach #caribbean #sailing…RT @PartTimeDragons: #motivation #dragons
Retweets much appreciated! ❤️ https://t.co/SFfYQlydSuFollow us for new posts daily! 💪🏋️💦 #fitness #motivation #gym #workout #health #diet #gymmotivation https://t.co/tMTHglqpT7RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Saffy find a home #Ballymena 
#dogs #dogsoftwitterLIVE LONGER &amp; HEALTHIER! This new Kindle eBook will help you dramatically reduce the stress in your #life and help… https://t.co/6ZSDhUsCBTRT @ValiAxaviy: FREE BOOK: Uncover Emotional Secrets &amp; Live a Happier Life #Advice #HowTo. FREE DOWNLOAD!👇
https://t.co/5WbA3sFSKa

"#bookca…RT @motivationwing: if you see me less, I am doing more 💪⠀"
#dailyinspiration #motivation #dailymotivation #dailyquotes #quotes #inspiration…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gil find a home #Carmarthenshire #Wales 🍀Join us on our Instagram page for Affirmation Saturdays! 
I AM 💕

IG: @GlossyLuxeCo_ 
Website:… https://t.co/aO7G213vtnRT @isaacmaweu: 4 NEVERS  that you should never forget in #life #IsaacTheGreat #ThinkBigSundayWithMarsha https://t.co/tP8Y0EYeNKCome join the live video premiere to discuss 5 different places you can get Silver &amp; Gold from (plus a bonus way)!… https://t.co/BD087eHYX6RT @DogLostUK: URGENT! #dogsoftwitter #Dogs #Cats 

"We need 1 single database (NOT 15) for registering microchips and we need vets to start…RT @Bijan_Cyrus: 💕First, Find Your #Love in #Life💕, So"
💕Find The #PEACE Within For💕 
💕Giving it to Others!💕 
@Bijan_Cyrus 

#IDWP #LOVETRAI…Diamonique
@miamiteenyweeny
https://t.co/KDq2p4AiSK

'#manausamazonas #expiredfilm #lucasfilm #superstars… https://t.co/0YEZeoa1CmRT @golist2020: Let everything happen to you: beauty &amp; hurt. Just keep going. No feeling is final

#KeepGoing #final #happy 

@kulanicool @…Live! https://t.co/3jeneLdL7C #Warzone #CallofDutyWarzone #TwitchStreamers #friendsRT @KariJoys: Think #HAPPY thoughts! #JoyTrain &gt;https://t.co/X7w2jFypNP #Peace #JoY #BeHappy   RT @DadiJanki https://t.co/eP0yQeXmncRT @SaintKateriCtr: Bluets and Violets are native and also are symbolic within a Mary Garden. Bluets represent Mary’s eyes and violets repr…RT @Rom_TAlan: Hogan does lots of things right. Not here.
"Maryland enacts landmark police overhaul, first state to repeal police bill of ri…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu"

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…🎁 Profit from Real Estate... The Rich Dad Way!  👉 Click here -- https://t.co/OskKwIA2i1  "
 
" #passiveincome #money… https://t.co/DJ0Q6uiWMeNo matter how long you have traveled in the wrong direction, you can always turn around. #Hope #Motivation… https://t.co/eJWPu51qV9RT @SlamNow1: Think bigger?  More boldly?  Let’s get to it!"

#Letsdoit #motivationalquotes #newyearnewme #fitness #fitspo #fitnessworkout #…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Obi find a home #LIVERPOOL     
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @JimiPriceless: Had to squeeze another book to read in my schedule before this year is over

"#Desus #Mero #God #Level #Knowledge #Darts…RT @Wukingpatrick: Embrace your passion and allow your strengths to grow. Your confidence in your abilities will naturally grow as well.#tr…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @carlaacarlson: No matter how long you have traveled in the wrong direction, you can always turn around. #Hope #Motivation #ThinkBIGSund…RT @harrypetsanis: ""We weren't created to please everyone, serve everyone, take advice from everyone, and live in a manner that benefits ev…RT @carlaacarlson: No matter how long you have traveled in the wrong direction, you can always turn around. #Hope #Motivation #ThinkBIGSund…RT @joelle47019650: For love of dogs "
Please sign and share the Greyhound #Petition 

https://t.co/u4cpzdDfFy

#BanGreyhoundRacing #mickthe…RT @millionaire_box: 🎁 Profit from Real Estate... The Rich Dad Way!  👉 Click here -- https://t.co/OskKwIA2i1  
 
 #passiveincome #money #be…Make plans to turn your dreams into reality. #Motivation
"Sheila Hopkins, Real Estate Agent,Carpenter Realtors https://t.co/IDpOb0rSvCRT @isaacmaweu: 4 NEVERS  that you should never forget in #life #IsaacTheGreat #ThinkBigSundayWithMarsha https://t.co/tP8Y0EYeNKRT @thistleflat: #GoodMorning #UKGiftHour! Hope you're all feeling good today, but just in case you need a bit of #Motivation ❤️"
https://t.…RT @MiriMission: Nessy is here and she is looking for her forever home. 

Isn't she adorable?!

"If you would like to be considered, please…RT @dawnkrieg1: A personal vision statement can be a powerful guide in several areas of life. #selfimprovement #motivation  https://t.co/h3…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @harrypetsanis: ""No one has ever been inspired by hearing what someone else isn't doing. Criticizing and pointing out the flaws and issu…RT @GsdLoverss: Lion cub🥰🥰"

Follow @GsdLoverss for more❤️

#germanshepherd #dogsoftwitter #K9 #gsd #dogs #cutedog #puppy #Dog https://t.co/…RT @Protect_Wldlife: Another 100 Dogs and Cats neutered by the @MiriMission Borneon Team with a TNRM Project in collaboration with @SPCAKK.…Photo taken at the bottom o  #Cable #PowerLines #ElectricTransmissionTower #Outstanding #Effects #Nature… https://t.co/hadS0LU3ZNRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Sid find a home #Berkshire #UK 

"Affectionate Husky Cross aged 6, loves running and swimming, wants…Conversations may be short and silence long, but friendship makes for life's most beautiful song #friendsSpent the day getting my garden started for the year and it was exactly what my soul needed 🤗🤗🤗 #happy #springRT @NinaAmir: Monday Inspiration: Manage Your Energy https://t.co/Dd1g3skUx8 #inspiration #motivation #personaldevelopment #personalgrowth…10 Awesome Party Ideas for Your Next Kids Party https://t.co/DN29wETF9e #entertainment #lifeRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 No update on PRETTY GIRL in Robstown, Nueces Co. #Texas yet this a.m. 4-10. Please continue RTs. A solid offer to #A…RT @ProsperityZen: #ProsperityZen  #ZenInProsperity  #Motivation  #BobMarley  #Reggae  Please retweet if you agree w/these #WeekendVibes! h…RT @dtdelosh: Birthday Bear &amp; Bunny card (833807) https://t.co/fwiWMcyLP4…"
" #birthday #bear #bunny #cuteanimals #greetingcard  #friends htt…RT @biblegateway: He isn’t here! He is risen from the dead! Job 19:25 (NLT) https://t.co/teqVVX7vB9 #Easter2021 #Jesus #Risen #love #Savior…RT @mapleveewesem: If you would like to #ADOPT or #FOSTER PRINCE, he is best suited to an adults only home as a solo pet. To adopt, schedul…RT @LynneWalkerPro1: Let's get these puppies back home. Poor wee souls.RT @belabab: WHO IS TEARING DOWN THE #posters of #STOLEN Dexter IN #HOLTSPUR #Beaconsfield!?? 😡😡😡 #Dog #dogs #PetTheft #DogTheft #DogTheftC…RT @gsrescueelite: Flash ( Ahh ) is 4yrs old and has been with us since Sept 17, he can live with older kids and other #dogs but he does ha…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! "

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀RT @harrypetsanis: ""No one has ever been inspired by hearing what someone else isn't doing. Criticizing and pointing out the flaws and issu…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: All #dogs are instinctively heroes🐶💖"
Saving lives is just what they do🤗
Now it's our turn🙏

Sign to #BanGreyhoundRacin…RT @ProsperityZen: #ProsperityZen  #ZenInProsperity  #Motivation  #BobMarley  #Reggae  Please retweet if you agree w/these #WeekendVibes! h…RT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021

These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…Gradient Printed Sports Men's Leggings

 #fitness #fit #gym #workout #motivation #sportsandexerciseequipment

"Tag a… https://t.co/TiLGwqi0mxRT @The_Animal_Team: 💥NOT ANGUS💥#Found #StondonMassey #Brentwood #Essex 10/4/21. Now at Wallace Kennels.  📞01277 821032 with information on…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @Life__Quotes: Because our choices are largely based on survival. But if life is eternal, life is not a question. Neale Donald Walsch #q…RT @The_Animal_Team: 💥£2000 REWARD FOR SAFE RETURN💥"
"Still #missingPippa #Newark #NG24 area, #Notts. Call 07866026343 with any information.…RT @joelle47019650: For love of dogs "
Please sign and share the Greyhound #Petition 

https://t.co/u4cpzdDfFy

#BanGreyhoundRacing #mickthe…RT @ProsperityZen: #ProsperityZen  #ZenInProsperity  #Motivation  #BobMarley  #Reggae  Please retweet if you agree w/these #WeekendVibes! h…Why You Don’t Need To Sacrifice Anything To Be Successful 

https://t.co/SfUtcMw3hc via @Pocket 
#Psychology… https://t.co/99SvyStiA0RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Tango find a home #Cambridgeshire #England 🍀How Getting an #EyelashPerm Can be an #Impactful Change in Your #Life
https://t.co/mySMR1RqlKRT @ProsperityZen: #ProsperityZen  #ZenInProsperity  #Motivation  #BobMarley  #Reggae  Please retweet if you agree w/these #WeekendVibes! h…RT @TEOROfficial: Let’s rise above our fears! 🖤💛🖤

"#teor #Motivation #rockRT @Berti_and_Ernie: Where ever we go, there will be a dog willing to follow us unswervingly! #dog #friends https://t.co/f30s9iOL3vRT @shah2256: Conversations may be short and silence long, but friendship makes for life's most beautiful song #friendsRT @bulldog_manny: I drove 14 hours to be surprised by john and his family with this sweet baby..this is Ashur who they got for us. We will…New in The Brave Writer 👉  3 Highly Effective Tips To Crush Your Next Writing Project"
https://t.co/3ObxIrR0TJ… https://t.co/cUxClo8bjcRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Obi find a home #LIVERPOOL     
"#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
"#dogs #dogsoftwitterWell, it finally happened. Josie ate so many treats she turned into cheese. LOL #cheese #dogs #funny https://t.co/tqbsnYH16lRT @Eli_Krumova: How silicon-based #life comes into being"

#engineering #neuralnetwork #automation #DEVCommunity #Programming #100DaysOfCod…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFEnjoy a craft &amp; vendor fair to support the @EGAPLRI and our furry friends in need! Stop by May 1 for crafters, raff… https://t.co/bLNFkOeCmFRT @ProsperityZen: #ProsperityZen  #ZenInProsperity  #Motivation  #BobMarley  #Reggae  Please retweet if you agree w/these #WeekendVibes! h…RT @Eli_Krumova: How silicon-based #life comes into being"

#engineering #neuralnetwork #automation #DEVCommunity #Programming #100DaysOfCod…RT @texastwins2004: #cindyism #failure #quotes #grateful #success #inspiration #motivation #lifequotes #selflove #quote “FAILURES are the S…RT @TEOROfficial: Let’s rise above our fears! 🖤💛🖤

#teor #Motivation #rockNew #sales #video from @salesmanpodcast More Revenue With Less Prospecting (Expanding Accounts) With Tim Riesterer… https://t.co/zL5uKE057NRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Vjay find a home #SHROPSHIRE  
"#dogs #dogsoftwitterEvery friendship goes through ups and downs. Dysfunctional patterns set in; external situations cause internal fricti #friends #friendshipsTrue friendship is one of God's greatest gifts | #quote #motivation #inspire #lifecoach https://t.co/Js0vdeU1EKThere is power behind every action. Are you ready to be your most powerful self? #Motivation https://t.co/hGlxnC3EDuRT @ProsperityZen: #ProsperityZen  #ZenInProsperity  #Motivation  #BobMarley  #Reggae  Please retweet if you agree w/these #WeekendVibes! h…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Barley find a home #KENT 
 
"JRT aged 1, can live with children aged 14+ as only pet, loves fuss, wi…RT @ProsperityZen: #ProsperityZen  #ZenInProsperity  #Motivation  #BobMarley  #Reggae  Please retweet if you agree w/these #WeekendVibes! h…RT @juliana_monty: Baby #lamb keeps asking to be petted just like #dogs &amp; #cats would. Live animal exports to be banned in #England &amp; #Wale…RT @LisaClareRead2: Super Skye is on the lookout for her forever home. Please contact @gsrescueelite for details on adopting this lovely la…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bella find a home #Manchester #DogsofTwittterRT @nickatnitetv: Happy #NationalSiblingsDay! #Friends https://t.co/TqEnm6pmUYRT @nickatnitetv: who did it better? #Friends https://t.co/FE7I0ttYgDRT @ProsperityZen: #ProsperityZen  #ZenInProsperity  #Motivation  #BobMarley  #Reggae  Please retweet if you agree w/these #WeekendVibes! h…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage"
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

"#…I swear this is the same dog! The warm weather means it's time for some grooming. I love his big coat though.… https://t.co/yV2UQDpBD8RT @Kraturescuedog: Meet my family! Left to right. Paqo, Polo then me! Raffy my younger brother and Maia the wolfdog #family #cute #dogs we…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help find homes for Fergal, Cody and Teddy (separately) #BALLYMENA #NorthernIreland "

For details of the…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @ProsperityZen: #ProsperityZen  #ZenInProsperity  #Motivation  #BobMarley  #Reggae  Please retweet if you agree w/these #WeekendVibes! h…Puppy says hello to all our homestead fam! 

" #homestead #urbanfarm #dog #dogsoftwitter #puppy #dogs #sharpei #baby… https://t.co/cjLSLbJxCbRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #Hampshire[Re-Air] Snow? https://t.co/qCsvoAUzGZ #dogs #petsRT @JaneHyun: I’ve been on break from Twitter last week to reduce digital overload &amp; woke up to this pre-COVID pic reminder of why we press…Like it ? Tweet it, Shop It  Faux Suede 2 in 1 Cape Coat https://t.co/evky7qroxg #fitgirls #fitness… https://t.co/5VXKD5Fa3aRT @MischiefAndFun: You never lose Friends."
Real ones will always stay - no matter what
"and the fakes, you don't need anyways."
#Friends #To…RT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…45 #life lessons from a 90 - year old. 
https://t.co/2fvKYclUQ6RT @ProsperityZen: #ProsperityZen  #ZenInProsperity  #Motivation  #BobMarley  #Reggae  Please retweet if you agree w/these #WeekendVibes! h…RT @ProsperityZen: #ProsperityZen  #ZenInProsperity  #Motivation  #BobMarley  #Reggae  Please retweet if you agree w/these #WeekendVibes! h…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️RT @RidyardColin: Hug a #baby #elephant and make his day; buy his book &amp; make #friends for life
https://t.co/BkRHF07WEV
#GrowingReaders #Ch…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @heatherrose1814: G’morning Friends/ Beautiful Souls!🌹☕️🥐😁🤎❤️ Happy Saturday and #NationalCinnamonCrescentDay! 🥐 Have a super Saturday..…Leaving the cemetery now going to a baby shower. 😞💔. #Life .https://t.co/uG3MoMhIBj What does 2021 look like? https://t.co/U3S8Qt3HWo #motivation #entrepreneurquotes… https://t.co/UO4Vn18kUZJust played #Happy House by #Siouxsie and The Banshees. https://t.co/rQmq5N3NfO https://t.co/7OMFqZOMc1RT @BearBertthe: He took his time but Albert is accepting of the neighbours cats and allowed them into the house🙀 

They had free reign und…🆘🐾💔 Please help KUTCHER leave SEAACA alive &amp; find his forever home. He's looking for a #DogLover in So #CA to… https://t.co/ONgucYELBbRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gil find a home #Carmarthenshire #Wales 🍀A lot has changed in the last 12 months but being honest with yourself are you (going to be) happier with your life… https://t.co/kakffa3G6SRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bella find a home #Manchester #DogsofTwittterRT @PaperBoy2wn: https://t.co/8UdC4NHTjx  #CLICKLINK
Ima remember the moments we had!!! Forever #GRATEFUL UNC #POWERFUL INDIVIDUAL you alwa…#Marriage advice .. 8 signs that you have married a teenager

#marriagegoals #married2med #married  #MarriedLife… https://t.co/JbzhKgAxr1RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Lexi find a home #KENT #UK 

"Boxer Cross aged 3, looking for a caring adult home, to build her conf…Clarity. Clarity. Clarity. Shine. Shine. Shine. All the time #life #xrp #bitcoinRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gala find a home #Glasgow  #Scotland 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿RT @ScarlettBeagle: @HeidiBearKaye1 @seasylvia2005 @rickygervais @JaneFallon ""When everyone backs a top science hearing to prove the experi…RT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3RT @DAYLEE: #dogs urgently needing #Rescue ASAP.  Please retweetRT @avecozave: Remember..."
#ThoughtForTheDay #life #quotes #quote #motivation https://t.co/q5PQqTModjRT @The_Animal_Team: #Violet went #missing on 8/4/21 from #AtkinsonFarm #ChorleyNewRoad #Bolton #BL1 area. #OldeEnglishBulldog Chipped and…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️#OmarSharif d #MariaCallas in my #PENTAGON #Trump goes #GamblingTwitter d #free our #lifestyle is just
"#life in… https://t.co/8WKnA9mRUGRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ken find a home #Canterbury #England #dogs #DogsofTwittter  🍀⭐️🍀⭐️🍀Nothing is permanent in this wicked world, not even our troubles. - Charlie Chaplin #quoteoftheday #motivation #SamSEORT @terrinakamura: Dogs Can Have a Little Charcuterie, as a Treat https://t.co/CsjlBkLUQt #dogs #charcuterie https://t.co/uY8nxRKsGWRT @ILovemy58919370: When you’re having a good dream and your best friend is there too."
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm…God Bless Working Dogs and their Handlers!RT @AdoptionsUk: Urgent retweet please to help Jessica find a home #BRIDGEND #WALES 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿
AGED 14 Looking for a quiet home ok with childr…RT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Buddy find a home #ESSEX 

"Affectionate Akita aged 11, has some medical issues so short walks and a…Thank you! #Stream #SmallStreamer #Soulsborne #DemonSouls @fromsoftware_pr #gaming #linkinbio #follow #subscribe… https://t.co/H5xSxOpHzLRT @Eli_Krumova: How silicon-based #life comes into being"

#engineering #neuralnetwork #automation #DEVCommunity #Programming #100DaysOfCod…RT @LynneWalkerPro1: Let's get these puppies back home. Poor wee souls.RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @funnydo25814387: I've never seen a dog this happy before.
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinsta 
"https://t.co/zqVQitk4HQRT @FiveFitness: Just because you have nothing to do, doesn't mean you should start binging on food. Your mind will try and trick you but y…RT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…Soaking in this sun ☀️😉... #vitaminD #life #greatful #blessed  #abundance #nofilter #naturalswagg #sunkissed #bae… https://t.co/gQE1OfS1eyBe a good house #motivationRT @doglovers2020: 😍👀"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter 
"📹: insta/molly_theblondie https://t.co/H7H9GQV2IURT @AdoptionsUk: TEAR JERKER please retweet, urgent FOSTER HOME wanted for Zak #BERKSHIRE "
"Affectionate Rottweiler aged 9, looking for adul…RT @Fateme14a: 🐜🐜🐜"

The Ant Philosophy 
"Never give up, Look Ahead, Stay positive and do all you can."

🐜🐜🐜

#Motivation https://t.co/UeMxZO1…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @sBhupen52: Hi Respected #friends 

Hello #TweeterWorld

"We Meet To Create Memories

And We Depart To Preserve Them.

To Meet &amp; Depart…RT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…RT @sBhupen52: Hi Respected #Friends

Hello #TweeterWorld 

#HappyRepublicDay2021 

#Namaste From #IncredibleIndia

Have A Blessed Day 🙏🙏 h…RT @sBhupen52: Hi Respected #Friends

Hello #TweeterWorld

#Namaste 

Enjoy Happy Days Ahead 🎉🌴💐

🌈🌈🌈🌈OFF LINE 🌈🌈🌈🌈

With #PeaceAndLove 
Fr…Your back should always be proportional to your front. Still got work to do 😤 #noinvisiblelatsyndromhere… https://t.co/10pkW7l2ZFRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 No update on PRETTY GIRL in Robstown, Nueces Co. #Texas yet this a.m. 4-10. Please continue RTs. A solid offer to #A…RT @sBhupen52: Hi Respected #friends
 
Every Day Is SPECIAL
If You Think So

Every Moment Is MEMORABLE
If You Feel So

Everyone Is UNIQUE
I…RT @mapleveewesem: If you would like to #ADOPT or #FOSTER PRINCE, he is best suited to an adults only home as a solo pet. To adopt, schedul…Scent is the soul of flowers...
~ 𝐽𝑢𝑙𝑒𝑠 𝑉𝑒𝑟𝑛𝑒
©️ Domenico Antonio Galloro 
#photography #NaturePhotography… https://t.co/jz5MpJHAZrRT @jaylee6767: Your back should always be proportional to your front. Still got work to do 😤 #noinvisiblelatsyndromhere 

#bodybuilding #f…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gala find a home #Glasgow  #Scotland 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿RT @Poetryin13: Only at a carnival will we find pink and purple polka dotted #hippopotamuses"""
Thank God. Now pass the #crisps!
"Think of…RT @AKCHercules: Please help if you can, we did! ❤️ @nuggetsdrooling @RidleyHowell @casie190 @abby_bulldog @itsSirGustafson @Catsemail @elv…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Tango find a home #Cambridgeshire #England 🍀RT @MiriMission: Nessy is here and she is looking for her forever home. 

Isn't she adorable?!

If you would like to be considered, please…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @Wainmat: Don't try this at home...

Southport &amp; Birkdale CC 1st XI v Bradshaw's friendly match, played at Trafalgar Road 10.04.21.

Ful…RT @Fateme14a: 🐜🐜🐜

The Ant Philosophy 
Never give up, Look Ahead, Stay positive and do all you can.

🐜🐜🐜

#Motivation https://t.co/UeMxZO1…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gala find a home #Glasgow  #Scotland 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿RT @MillieandGriff: Zoooommmm!! #dogsoftwitter #dogs Mum forgot to share this photo the other day so we've made her post it now!! https://t…RT @DrJDrooghaag: 🔵 Smile more, laugh more.

#Quote #Inspiration #Motivation #QOTD #IQRTG via @DrJDrooghaag
@Fabriziobustama @archonsec @Fr…RT @jaylee6767: Your back should always be proportional to your front. Still got work to do 😤 #noinvisiblelatsyndromhere 

#bodybuilding #f…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 Friends, if you don't already do so, please check Sandra's profile regularly &amp; help share the pups @ PVAS #Texas , n…RT @CaptainBadger79: Sami loves her hugs #NationalHugYourDogDay #dogsoftwitter #dog #dogs #bordercollie https://t.co/ztiRLawwHFThe best leather #leashes for #dogs in one place 🐕‍🦺

Visit us at 👉👉 https://t.co/rlfyfsScs3 🦮 https://t.co/bL1neM3NriRT @dinnydot: Out and about with my friends 🤗
Masks off for photographs 😂
#SaturdayNight #friends https://t.co/REYvT1s0XzRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3RT @dogfans4: Weekend mood
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📸: insta/pepperminidachshund https://t.co/tWzCEpeDS2This makes my day...45 #life lessons from a 90 - year old.
https://t.co/kubf8ZpS5RRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…“How it started ➡️ how it’s going”
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQAsHeya all!  After the recent Windows Update crashed my hard drive, and a $400 fix later, I've got my computer back.… https://t.co/7i9JDVh8g9RT @Alfierescue1: Look at lovely happy Nessy! Please help to find her a home 💜💜RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @The_Animal_Team: 💥NOT ANGUS💥#Found #StondonMassey #Brentwood #Essex 10/4/21. Now at Wallace Kennels.  📞01277 821032 with information on…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gil find a home #Carmarthenshire #Wales 🍀Looks so cute when she’s sleeping #dogs #dogsoftwitter #gsd #germanshepherd https://t.co/ux91HqBb74RT @BearBertthe: '... And today I follow his footsteps and stand where greatness once stood'

#dogsoftwitter #dogs #Dog #smileforbert ♥ htt…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Violet went #missing on 8/4/21 from #AtkinsonFarm #ChorleyNewRoad #Bolton #BL1 area. #OldeEnglishBulldog Chipped and…RT @BrianTracy: #Motivation comes and goes. That’s just the truth. If you’re struggling with motivation, I’ve come up with 15 questions to…6 Unique Personalized Gifts to Wow Your Friends and Family https://t.co/xS7vMjjRv0 #life #workfamilyRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Tango find a home #Cambridgeshire #England 🍀RT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…Luke 12:35-59 #ReadTheBible with me! #GodsWord #Bible #Jesus #hope #truth #life #change #NewTestament… https://t.co/BlClHrSJiqAnd we can choose to walk, run or stay still ✌️

#Leadership #MotivationRT @Princes51989945: Mornin frens 😊. Gonna be another beautiful day in the 80’s 🤗. Going for a walkie soon 🥳. Hoomom is happy that her Azal…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…RT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…RT @kenthinblueline: Looks so cute when she’s sleeping #dogs #dogsoftwitter #gsd #germanshepherd https://t.co/ux91HqBb74RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️RT @Eli_Krumova: How silicon-based #life comes into being

#engineering #neuralnetwork #automation #DEVCommunity #Programming #100DaysOfCod…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…Causes of Dark Circles: 10 Home Remedies to Remove Dark Circles https://t.co/dUrPFK032b
#tagfire #lifestyle… https://t.co/Rzzapq3mlvRT @albertthakur: So #happy to be in front of the lens and to be filming a Pilot for the History Channel! 
When I die I want nothing left i…🌾🌊🌲🌅💜 No words just 😍 

• • • #happy #sopretty #sunset #coast @ Holkham National Nature Reserve https://t.co/QKIsXdyUXyRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help find the owners of these dogs found in the #SouthWest #UK  Do you recognise any of them? #dogs #Dog…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ken find a home #Canterbury #England #dogs #DogsofTwittter  🍀⭐️🍀⭐️🍀#HowTo  make your life easier .. 5 facts you should be aware of

#marriagegoals #married2med #married  #MarriedLife… https://t.co/wADUDA495QRT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3Do ensure your main sales message is extremely carefully matched up for your personal ideal prospective distributor… https://t.co/qdG8IOUt7zRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Obi find a home #LIVERPOOL     
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @ScarlettBeagle: @HeidiBearKaye1 @seasylvia2005 @rickygervais @JaneFallon When everyone backs a top science hearing to prove the experi…RT @belabab: WHO IS TEARING DOWN THE #posters of #STOLEN Dexter IN #HOLTSPUR #Beaconsfield!?? 😡😡😡 #Dog #dogs #PetTheft #DogTheft #DogTheftC…RT @WillowAssist: Thanks @Blackhap90y172 for the Retweet 💚 did you see this video on finding hope in the chaos, called Motivation For Times…Lovely sunset in Orlando, Florida  #Water #Building #Hotel #AmusementPark #Sunset #Orlando #Florida #Paradise… https://t.co/QA1f7n4nOlRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK "

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @ScarlettBeagle: ""Sound up everyone!"" woofs rescued ex-laboratory @ScarlettBeagle, ""I had the most amazing time in the woods today, spel…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀RT @_AnimalAdvocate: If your sickened by the horses killed at the #GrandNational, please sign to #BanGreyhoundRacing🙏"
#Dogs die everyday🐕💔…RT @depot_pets: I not so sure about these kisses —Emma  😘🐾🐶 #dogs #DogsofTwittter #aussiedoodle #boxer #FridayVibes https://t.co/cWqSvgbfuEWill I Ever Get A Heart Attack? Know Your Risks And 6 Tips To Prevent Heart Attack https://t.co/NvRcvqQ3pr
#tagfire… https://t.co/PwSZyInwbVRT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJNOTHIN BUT the TRUTH!!💯
• • • • • •
Getting it done..one NFL team at a time!!
Welcome Detroit Lions😎
"#gwagon… https://t.co/ebLATmwEkNRT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3RT @The_Animal_Team: #Violet went #missing on 8/4/21 from #AtkinsonFarm #ChorleyNewRoad #Bolton #BL1 area. #OldeEnglishBulldog Chipped and…RT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…By doing what you love,you inspire and awaken the hearts of others."
#motivation #PositiveEnergy #positivethinking… https://t.co/XRsisfnxhPRT @PlaceKais: How many goldens is too many?
There is no such thing🤣

(max.and.finn IG)
#dogcelebration 
#weekendsmiles #grc
#dogs https://…Compassion must always come from a kind heart. A heart that is willing to give and share.

"Let's think about this w… https://t.co/NrEx7vLl1Z#motivation, #smallbiz, starting selling on your website today https://t.co/wYLOLO8waJMy single RUNNIN' AWAY FT. VIOLET is out now at #AppleMusic https://t.co/OTrCOtARyZ and #Spotify… https://t.co/nqPJLTHASRHappy National Hug Your Dog Day! 🤗🐶"

#hugyourdog #nationalhugyourdogday #dogs #puppies # friendswithnokids #fwnk… https://t.co/682HIekcnRI'm currently feeling #Happy.Prince reporting for cuddles!

"#gooddog #dogdaycare #dogs #pnwdogs #seattlebestdog #seattlebestdogs #wadogs… https://t.co/KJ67RUoLSeYou have to push very hard to get something unusual, something different.- Danny Boyle!"

#Quotes #motivation… https://t.co/4se2pUS8KFLady Gaga rsquo s Dogs Recovered Unharmed at L A  Police Station #Dogs 👉 https://t.co/nlN43jicf0 👈  https://t.co/HwP7Q6YjyhIt is not our abilities that show what we truly are. It is our choices.

#CodeNewbies #MotivationalQuotes… https://t.co/bodgWbDPcvToday is #NationalHugYourDogDay 🐕

#OnePhotoEachDay We had the pleasure of hugging these 👇 adorable dogs in an anim… https://t.co/NXH3C2EV19Hey guys..!
"No matter how you spent yesterday. It's a new day, a fresh start. What are your plans?"
.
.
.
.
#fresh… https://t.co/LmJmiSRyzCRT @joelle47019650: For love of dogs 
Please sign and share the Greyhound #Petition 

https://t.co/u4cpzdDfFy

"#BanGreyhoundRacing #mickthe…When you create a culture in which employees can reach their goals you boost productivity, morale, and engagement.… https://t.co/h4eR2ytmKvFill your body with food that inspires you and gives you #motivation and energy to follow your passions! https://t.co/G1dGVcLmmUYOU AS THE AUTHORITY FIGURE!"
"Natural leaders are created, not birthed. Ever before ask on your own why numerous hug… https://t.co/aYdj0uzlJfDear friends, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, because many fals… https://t.co/wnralY0cwgWhy Do Yoga?"
https://t.co/qv0GTkFKzp
Mind-Body-Spirit Coach &amp; Transformation Speaker

"#JillianBullock #MentalHealth… https://t.co/l0KoQ6qHtLThe temperature is getting warmer and warmer by the day, and we’re not the only ones taking advantage of the nice w… https://t.co/pUoo624EBaRT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3Cute!! 🐶😍"

...

Credit : Reddit User florengregory 

...

#pupperport #pup #puppies #pups #dogs #dog #aww #cute… https://t.co/98FMnr44OERT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Vjay find a home #SHROPSHIRE  
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @ServiceDogPr: This was my favorite toy from my 2021 Easter egg hunt!
-Blake #GreatDane

Blake is @blakeshelton's namesake from our #Mus…Tag your favorite people! 🐾🐶 

"#TheDogLine #Dogs #LifeWithDogs https://t.co/DDAt4eGpbfSamoyeds Are Fluffy White Clouds Of Happiness (25 Pics) - SO FLUFFY. #samoyeds #dogs #cute #aww https://t.co/4ds1FFdYBKRT @joanesprosper: You have to push very hard to get something unusual, something different.- Danny Boyle!"

"#Quotes #motivation #dailyquote…RT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3Everything you do now is for your future. Think about that."
https://t.co/AFPp6YebRQ 
. 
. 
. 
#bestlifehacks… https://t.co/rz2KrxXHXo🙌 Anxiety will never go away but at least you can control it. 🙌

🤩 You can sound confident but still have anxiety…… https://t.co/Ozlh3XjTlxMake sure you're starting your #days with what makes you #happy and with what makes you feel good!

What do you do… https://t.co/nVRCQPmI24It’s comfortable to keep doing the same thing over and over again. It is comfortable to stick to doing what you kno… https://t.co/c1FNmUnTrw[PC] 18+ 🍑The peach that got away uwu🍑 !Discord https://t.co/KIK7JdMeHn  #Streamer #Stream #ChillVibes #Livenow… https://t.co/X3SAZy2qwiIsn't it exciting to know that you can continually work on yourself to become your best version? #Motivation
Let my… https://t.co/N1iv8aQ39s@andywilchess We are almost family 👯 #bff #bogota #friends #dancers @ Santuario de Monserrate https://t.co/PZzShwzMYSHave a great day ahead! Keep fighting for your dreaming!

#millennialwealthplanner #mwp #mwpMotivation #motivation… https://t.co/ItXKdgyJurRT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…RT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGlEven in the darkest night, the sun will rise. "
#NAME?

"#recovery #addiction #addictionrecovery #sober… https://t.co/B2MZWdQ7zNRT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
"https://t.co/HL3xKBhh0eRT @Ilovemy02803780: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
"https://t.co/GlYK49APuDEven if you feel stuck, keep moving forward. #inspiration #motivation https://t.co/KV31dgpmhaRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Obi find a home #LIVERPOOL "

"German Shep/Malamute aged 7 'playful teddy', looking for an experience…You are strong enough to live this life!"
"#strong #enough #live #life #quotes #inspire #influentialdoctorsmagazine… https://t.co/f69HyyRMmdRT @LindaGrass0: Everyday is a new opportunity to become a better version of yourself, don't waste it."
{Infographic} @antgrasso via @LindaG…RT @juliana_monty: Baby #lamb keeps asking to be petted just like #dogs &amp; #cats would. Live animal exports to be banned in #England &amp; #Wale…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…Treadmill for any person."
#fitness #workout #gym #motivation #health #fit #training #fitnessmotivation… https://t.co/h4lEPcegPM@MarvinVettori defeats @Trailblaze2top by unanimous decision.

#fightclub247 #ufcvegas23 #boxingfanatik #wrestling… https://t.co/oxYgYZt64rRT @The_Animal_Team: #Violet went #missing on 8/4/21 from #AtkinsonFarm #ChorleyNewRoad #Bolton #BL1 area. #OldeEnglishBulldog Chipped and…RT @RainaJasbir: Less expectations from others means more happiness and peace for Self. 

#Leadership.   #Motivation
#Mindfulness   #Truth…Taking breaks during the day can make wonders for you
It helps you to recharge your body and mind.… https://t.co/z21kzaXarSRT @StonerCooxhieee: happy friday freaks💋                                           

#FridayMood #happy #sellingcontent #dmvfreaks #goodmo…Went through photos and found some baby Jake photos 😎😎
•
•
•
"#throwback #me #photooftheday #baby #potd #like #love… https://t.co/gIE6gpwY1WRT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Benson find a home #WOKING #SURREY #UK "
"Gentle giant aged 8, looking for an experienced adult home…Just having fun with “la mija”💁🏼‍♀️ the little thing 😘 and the vodka 🐩."
.
.
.
.
.
.
📸 @alexia.hamed 
#friends… https://t.co/CMetaw2yicRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gala find a home #Glasgow  #Scotland 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿RT @RocketCityTeam: Everything you do now is for your future. Think about that.
https://t.co/AFPp6YebRQ 
. 
. 
. 
"#bestlifehacks #sidejob #…RT @harrypetsanis: ""People spend more time avoiding their pain and running from their fears then they do healing and overcoming the dysfunc…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bella find a home #Manchester #DogsofTwittterRT @Ranal55: Life is lived in the moment; if you live it any other way, you've missed it."

"#quote #Life #Today #SaturdaySunshine https://t.…RT @carlaacarlson: No matter how long you have traveled in the wrong direction, you can always turn around. #Hope #Motivation #ThinkBIGSund…TODAY is a GOOD DAY to live !🔥"
Repeat it everyday from now on 

"#entrepenuer #brokerlife #financialadvisor… https://t.co/tICoMpDmtEBeating Procrastination 101. Set Simple, achievable goals. https://t.co/ReQHZKoq9L #motivation #procrastination #life #balance"
" #BlogRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @Snishaa2: Good Night to All My ℒℴѴℯly
Friends👫
After Every Beautiful Day Comes a
"Beautiful Night, Hope You’ve All"
"Enjoyed This One,Take…Girls Summer Shorts https://t.co/SoUcgq3NEN #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion #kids #babyshower… https://t.co/IFMSMf2ePmRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Tango find a home #Cambridgeshire #England 🍀RT @carlaacarlson: Take all #risks, use all #opportunities, &amp; face all #fears. #Motivation #ThinkBIGSundayWithMarsha https://t.co/XDfl4hs0bSRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gil find a home #Carmarthenshire #Wales 🍀#FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021"

"These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND… https://t.co/jCZI9fRhn5RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”"
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…Portrait of a lazy dog. 🖼 #rescuedog #dogs #dogslife https://t.co/1SKWPFHZnHRT @AdoptionsUk: Urgent retweet please to help Jessica find a home #BRIDGEND #WALES 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿
"AGED 14 Looking for a quiet home ok with childr…RT @Berti_and_Ernie: Where ever we go, there will be a dog willing to follow us unswervingly! #dog #friends https://t.co/f30s9iOL3vRT @ScarlettBeagle: ""Sound up everyone!"" woofs rescued ex-laboratory @ScarlettBeagle, ""I had the most amazing time in the woods today, spel…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”"
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…RT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…RT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021

"These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…#weekend #spring #active On my way #home from #hospital App. #walkingfit  #detour #discovery #outdoor #rings 🙌🏾… https://t.co/x6dxmmGSA8RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @gymunstrument: Treadmill for any person."
"#fitness #workout #gym #motivation #health #fit #training #fitnessmotivation #healthylifestyle…RT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…RT @labtested1: Proud gun dog vs. little cutie pie. 🤭 #dogs https://t.co/55WjH8SQz7RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 If you are a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC &amp; can share your home, 1 of these 4 sweet &amp; beautiful #dogs needs you to…Children's Drum Set #giftidea #happy https://t.co/DJn1Qb0O3Q https://t.co/cEUa7NgknGZero in on the task at hand while at work by putting this advice into action. #worktips #motivation… https://t.co/kQurso81MoRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK "

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!"
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGlWell, if this isn’t the most polite face I’ve ever seen. 😍"

Via: 5am281

"#dog #dogs #puppy #dogoftheday #cutedog https://t.co/ygl4eKIUPWRT @Berti_and_Ernie: Where ever we go, there will be a dog willing to follow us unswervingly! #dog #friends https://t.co/f30s9iOL3vFANTASTIC.RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage"
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…RT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…RT @dogfans4: This is pure joy!
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/DoZalzpjJkRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @dailyom: Yes, you are good enough #DailyOM #Motivation #Quotes #QOTD #GoodEnoughCotton Vest Shorts 2pcs https://t.co/0RGxsVWrH1 #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion #kids… https://t.co/olYcuKtDRKRT @DisabledAnimals: Another 100 Dogs and Cats neutered by the @MiriMission Borneon Team with a TNRM Project in collaboration with @SPCAKK.…RT @harrypetsanis: ""No one has ever been inspired by hearing what someone else isn't doing. Criticizing and pointing out the flaws and issu…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @AryaTheElkhound: Oh have a look guys this video features me and my siblings. My mummy is silly for doing this. We do love a cheeky wee…RT @NikkiKnightly: Love these pics"
"#streetfashion #knee #eyewear #dress #happy #kicks #eyewearstyle #eyewearfashion #happytime #happyness #…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @AdoptionsUk: Urgent retweet please to help Jessica find a home #BRIDGEND #WALES 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿"
"AGED 14 Looking for a quiet home ok with childr…RT @AAGR_UK: Help more #Dogs like these two. When their rescuers saved them, they never imagined the flow of redundant racing #Greyhounds c…RT @GeorgiaEinstein: #weekend #spring #active On my way #home from #hospital App. #walkingfit  #detour #discovery #outdoor #rings 🙌🏾"
"#illne…RT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
"https://t.co/HL3xKBhh0eRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @rubenruizmacie1: Zero in on the task at hand while at work by putting this advice into action. #worktips #motivation  https://t.co/KqqN…RT @PetMunchies: #win #giveaway of #PetMunchies #natural #dog  #pet #treats  #dogtreats  #trainingtreats #training #dogs #competition #dogs…""Effort only fully releases its reward after a person refuses to quit."" #quote #quotes #inspiration #motivation #true #quoteofthedayRT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021"

"These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @joanesprosper: You have to push very hard to get something unusual, something different.- Danny Boyle!"

#Quotes #motivation #dailyquote…@Philkeyz 
RHYTHM AND BASS 
 Out now
Kudos to the team ❤🤝
Directors by @willywithdjuice @kamhabit
"Edited by… https://t.co/6w6f3dKCoKRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…#society3 #morality #life Poetry sounding prose style site:R today's atheists lucky tobe in faith guided moral world https://t.co/IRonheRsix𝙎𝙪𝙥𝙥𝙤𝙧𝙩 𝙋𝙖𝙮𝙢𝙚𝙣𝙩 𝙁𝙧𝙤𝙢 𝙀𝙫𝙚𝙧𝙮 𝙋𝙡𝙖𝙧𝙩𝙛𝙤𝙧𝙢"

Our platform accept payment from the most secure payment gateway.
.
CONTACT U… https://t.co/q3kk9AOzm9RT @doglovers2020: 😍👀
#dogs #dogsoftwitter 
"📹: insta/molly_theblondie https://t.co/H7H9GQV2IURT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @PlaceKais: How many goldens is too many?"
There is no such thing🤣

(max.and.finn IG)
#dogcelebration 
#weekendsmiles #grc
"#dogs https://…RT @dogsfootprint: Well, if this isn’t the most polite face I’ve ever seen. 😍"

Via: 5am281

#dog #dogs #puppy #dogoftheday #cutedog https:/…RT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…Guest Screening | How To Avoid Unwanted 
"#hostel #hospitality #dog #success #puppy #entrepreneur #marketing #dogs… https://t.co/bIFJk2rBEdRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 Please help KUTCHER leave SEAACA alive &amp; find his forever home. He's looking for a #DogLover in So #CA to #ADOPT or…RT @dogsfootprint: Well, if this isn’t the most polite face I’ve ever seen. 😍"

Via: 5am281

#dog #dogs #puppy #dogoftheday #cutedog https:/…Marrying a cousin is associated with really high and really low society.

👉 Drop a 💙

#Fun #Jokes #Dern #Quotes… https://t.co/Af2xvQXPmxRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamLED Sports Sneakers for Kids #Comfortable #EVA #Flashing #Footwear #Kids #Lighting #OutdoorShoe #Shoe #Smart… https://t.co/MJabWEZXq8RT @_AnimalAdvocate: Most #dogs become family but greyhounds become a regularly broken cog in a massive money-making machine🐕💔

"Sign to #Ba…“On this #wonderfulSunday, don’t forget to be #thankful for the little things in #life. May #time spent with the… https://t.co/MQQNZrOHDaRT @PlaceKais: How many goldens is too many?"
There is no such thing🤣

(max.and.finn IG)
#dogcelebration 
#weekendsmiles #grc
"#dogs https://…RT @Loprys: “A trap is only a trap if you don't know about it. If you know about it, it's a #challenge.”"
~ China Miéville 
#Motivation 
"#mo…RT @RoscoeLonestar: Asher, Manny’s little brother has the deadly Parvovirus. We need help with funds 4 treatment (estimated $3,500) and pra…Melario Newborn 2Pcs Spring Baby Sets https://t.co/gCTFSoswj1 #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion… https://t.co/2AjcqkTBoART @juliana_monty: Baby #lamb keeps asking to be petted just like #dogs &amp; #cats would. Live animal exports to be banned in #England &amp; #Wale…Beware of it ... #Romantic #films threaten your #marriage with collapse"

#movie #movies #romanticism #romanticismo… https://t.co/K1EEMdWJG5🤔 Need a second income? 

Start your own blog with this step by step guide:
—&gt; https://t.co/JoKn3BHPtK 

"Then use t… https://t.co/fAsKmBgfH7Built for comfort, not speed 😙"

#adoptdontshop #chugdog #chug #chugs #chuglove #chuglovers #chugsofinstagram… https://t.co/Mrf2VMaWiwIt's the small efforts that will build to your success!

Comment and tag a friend! ❤ Follow 👉 @AsdAchievement 👈 for… https://t.co/fmuHBT7D6NRT @KMuckleWilliams: Don't wait for good things to come to you. Work for them. #Motivation
"#YOURHOMEISWAITINGFORYOU https://t.co/IXlO6nLzxl#April #Birthstone: ""Gabriel &amp; Co"""
* Hand Mastered &amp; #Crafted Fine #Jewelry
"* #Spend $200 Get #Free Circle of #Life… https://t.co/qZEiO6Xo5qRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @AgnieszkaSurow2: Oh not again 😡RT @juliana_monty: Baby #lamb keeps asking to be petted just like #dogs &amp; #cats would. Live animal exports to be banned in #England &amp; #Wale…RT @Ranal55: If you are not satisfied with the options that life presents to you, find or create new options."

"#quote #options #life #creat…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @jaylee6767: Your back should always be proportional to your front. Still got work to do 😤 #noinvisiblelatsyndromhere "

"#bodybuilding #f…#EXITRealty #MorrisCode: ""Deliberately seek opportunities for kindness, sympathy, and patience."" #quote #motivation #inspirationRT @PrufrockeSiren: Napping boys 😴😴💚🐾🐾💚"
"#dogs #dogsandcats #cat #orange #goldendoodle #goldenretriever #poodle #sweet #goodboys #catnap htt…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Vjay find a home #SHROPSHIRE  "
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @MiriMission: Nessy is here and she is looking for her forever home. 

Isn't she adorable?!

"If you would like to be considered, please…RT @DianneDHarman: Amazon Hot New Release! "
Our pasts &amp; our secrets have a way of catching up with us
Maybe it was just Carl’s time
"Is it y…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
#dogs #dogsoftwitterSign the petition and save greyhound livesRT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…Portrait of poochon puppy jumping with black background  #Animal #Canine #Dog #Mammal #Pet #Poodle #BichonFrisé… https://t.co/wbaPlcAGtYRT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…RT @Ilovemy02803780: 😍😅
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/eNmEuZLVkRRT @PlaceKais: How many goldens is too many?
There is no such thing🤣

(max.and.finn IG)
#dogcelebration 
#weekendsmiles #grc
#dogs https://…RT @Bravo_Dada: Happy #Caturday❣️😻

#BravoDada #CidMoustache #Cats #CatsOfTwitter #CuteCats #catslife #dogs #catlovers #Pets #CaturdayEve h…RT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021

These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @Alfierescue1: Look at lovely happy Nessy! Please help to find her a home 💜💜RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Obi find a home #LIVERPOOL     
#dogs #dogsoftwitterHug your doggos today because it’s #NationalHugYourDogDay !! 🤗🤗 

"#NationalSiblingsDay #dog #dogs #dogsofTwitter… https://t.co/ZjJeGot2DmGreat minds are always feared by lesser minds. -Dan Brown #quote #motivation #motivational https://t.co/73ONykSrRbRT @AKCHercules: Please help if you can, we did! ❤️ @nuggetsdrooling @RidleyHowell @casie190 @abby_bulldog @itsSirGustafson @Catsemail @elv…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ken find a home #Canterbury #England #dogs #DogsofTwittter  🍀⭐️🍀⭐️🍀 https://t.co/E3tif7vSjfSending hugs and prayers https://t.co/v4FTUw0fIKSay whaaaaat? ❤️😮🤣 #pug #pugs #puppy #pugsofinstagram #instagood #dog #dogs #love #animal #pet #rescuedog… https://t.co/IVPHUb1tMrRT @DrJDrooghaag: 🔵 Life is too short, or too long, for me to allow myself the luxury of living it so badly. - Paulo Coelho"

#Quote #Inspir…RT @xoamelia: I’m kind of obsessed with @isabel_cumming’s obsession with skateboarding.RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJLace Ball Gown Bling Beaded Flower Girl Dress https://t.co/KAPfByyZ4G #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion… https://t.co/FvlnKiUWLYRT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…RT @MischiefAndFun: You never lose Friends.
Real ones will always stay - no matter what
"and the fakes, you don't need anyways."
"#Friends #To…RT @DrJDrooghaag: 🔵 Life is too short, or too long, for me to allow myself the luxury of living it so badly. - Paulo Coelho"

"#Quote #Inspir…RT @dogsfootprint: Well, if this isn’t the most polite face I’ve ever seen. 😍"

Via: 5am281

"#dog #dogs #puppy #dogoftheday #cutedog https:/…RT @ScarlettBeagle: @HeidiBearKaye1 @seasylvia2005 @rickygervais @JaneFallon ""When everyone backs a top science hearing to prove the experi…Zesty Paws Probiotic for Dogs – with Natural Digestive Enzymes + Prebiotics &amp; Pumpkin – for Diarrhea &amp; Upset Stomac… https://t.co/mEftcM4ND46 Things You Should Carry with You Every Day https://t.co/MnYGko7lhX #life3 Tips for Buying a New Truck https://t.co/fjtBAAAgdX #automobile #lifeRT @The_Animal_Team: #Labrador #puppies #stolen from #Galston #EastAyrshire overnight 9/10 April. 📞01560321903. #dogs #dogsoftwitter #stole…RT @ScarlettBeagle: @HeidiBearKaye1 @seasylvia2005 @rickygervais @JaneFallon ""When everyone backs a top science hearing to prove the experi…This customer has a selection of body mists lined up dependent on their mood 🥰"
•
•
#positivevibes #beautybloggers… https://t.co/R4GHKYdvwWRT @funnydo25814387: I've never seen a dog this happy before.
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinsta 
https://t.co/zqVQitk4HQRT @na_delce: Who is horny ? 🍆 👅👌
#horny #cumshot #erection #fuck #girl #gay #milf #nudes #porn #pussy #black #females #shemale #fuckme #cu…RT @The_Animal_Team: Still #missing #Ice #BishopAuckland #DL14 area. https://t.co/JQ7tUWXhWa #dogs #dogsoftwitter #MissingDog https://t.co/…Is your marriage strong? .. Here are the signs that confirm that

"#marriagegoals #married2med #married… https://t.co/hWhM53T5FnRT @harrypetsanis: ""We weren't created to please everyone, serve everyone, take advice from everyone, and live in a manner that benefits ev…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @10_Ilovedogs: Aww ❤️"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/Q3Xo0stgDJRT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…So true #friends https://t.co/WbKON8AMUfRT @Sebbah_Salma: We fall in love with people's flaws; The perfect person would be impossible to love."
"If people were perfect we wouldn't…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: All #dogs are instinctively heroes🐶💖
Saving lives is just what they do🤗
Now it's our turn🙏

Sign to #BanGreyhoundRacin…RT @bunsenbernerbmd: Unsure baby Beaks has sure come a long way.
She’s turning one next week!  Beakering Intensifies!!
#ThrowbackThursday #…BTW, if you zoom in, you can see the Las Vegas Strip. #lasvegas #vegas #hiking #hikingwithdogs #dogs… https://t.co/9wOfdwImvqWho is horny ? DM 🍆 👅
#horny #cumshot #erection #fuck #girl #gay #milf #nudes #porn #pussy #black #females #shemale… https://t.co/6kTKXaW3oERT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3Newborn Lace Princess Dresses https://t.co/bU7pubspKs #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion #kids… https://t.co/7ruIj1TQb1RT @ckwlpn: #reusable #Bowl #Lids #ecofriendly #dogs #handmade #etsy Covers https://t.co/ub1rLew52M via @EtsyRT @PetasticPets: How beautiful is that?
 #pets #dogs #cats #familypets #petastic #doglovers #catlovers #petlovers #dogsandcats #petslife #…RT @PetMunchies: #win #giveaway of #PetMunchies #natural #dog  #pet #treats  #dogtreats  #trainingtreats #training #dogs #competition #dogs…💚Dm for promo on  https://t.co/LTwoF5cZRI 💚💯RT @SealyhamEddie: Lots of tantrums on #UKTwitter today. It’s very sad. Folks need to #BeKind and show some respect. Thank goodness for #do…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @doglovers2020: 😍👀
#dogs #dogsoftwitter 
📹: insta/molly_theblondie https://t.co/H7H9GQV2IURT @MiaMalkova: Smile 😊 

#weekend #friyay #love #happy #style https://t.co/IWkzGoxY2eGet subscribers Dm your pictures for shout-out on Instagram. We help you to grow  your onlyfans at Instagram over 1… https://t.co/4OJoMzmhgcRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…RT @shutdownBV: “I researched #GreyhoundRacing in depth, the more I learnt the more distressing it became.” Moe has been an ardent activist…RT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…RT @Mijopets: Competition Time!
Follow us on Twitter &amp; retweet to enter our social media competition draw to win a FREE Personalised Pamper…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021

These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGlRT @killerweasel: Well, it finally happened. Josie ate so many treats she turned into cheese. LOL #cheese #dogs #funny https://t.co/tqbsnYH…RT @syd_akaYog: Heart breaking my dear furiend Frodo Run Free Frodo love yo my furiend #Awoooo #Frodo #RainbowBridge https://t.co/f0fzfc8UupRT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3RT @K9Loveofficial: Hug your doggos today because it’s #NationalHugYourDogDay !! 🤗🤗 

#NationalSiblingsDay #dog #dogs #dogsofTwitter #catso…@ozo_chukwu @iamjimmie @BudweiserNG @PentwoodFurnit1 #Emotions indeed. BeautifulRT @Mijopets: Competition Time!
Follow us on Twitter &amp; retweet to enter our social media competition draw to win a FREE Personalised Pamper…RT @terrinakamura: Dogs Can Have a Little Charcuterie, as a Treat https://t.co/CsjlBkLUQt #dogs #charcuterie https://t.co/uY8nxRKsGWRT @phwandjes: Out today 😀 #happy #published #hopeithelps @Liz_ORiordan @fayjojo @elfyn_thomas @charlot_summers @Mummydoc1 @SteveDunnCEO @A…RT @Beezzly_life: Happiness is not a destination👉
It is a way of life🤩

#beezzly #beezzly_life #life #qoutes #style #countryhouse #garden #…Can humans undo their mistakes by the way they're dealing with them?
#ecosystems #ecosystem #environment… https://t.co/1ie1KP57qPNew Spring Color Jackets https://t.co/ZlvhpFkTQz #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion #kids… https://t.co/ATDAMm68lART @dogfans4: Weekend mood
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📸: insta/pepperminidachshund https://t.co/tWzCEpeDS2MAKAO Model home. Love built homes are still the most amazing homes. More homes less houses. PITCH a tent today. 
.… https://t.co/htszjrmNPoRT @joelle47019650: For love of dogs 
Please sign and share the Greyhound #Petition 

https://t.co/u4cpzdDfFy

#BanGreyhoundRacing #mickthe…RT @ErikGsn: Rainy And Busy Friday With Afternoon Views - IAAC #366 - Actifit: April 9, 2021

https://t.co/JtulnyVaEJ

#IAmAliveChallenge #…RT @milouthechou: My hoomans did weave me wif anofer hooman and go away. I was sad. Now der back and I is vewy happee! :D
#dogsoftwitter #d…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021

These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @shutdownBV: “I researched #GreyhoundRacing in depth, the more I learnt the more distressing it became.” Moe has been an ardent activist…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…🤣🍑Never let a thin girl wear this leggings. 
https://t.co/8mtKDPjcZ5
 #motivation #style #fashion #weekendvibes… https://t.co/7Y1kbJdK6CRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Vjay find a home #SHROPSHIRE  
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @hilltopgina: CALLING ALL DOG LOVERS please help end the barbarism of greyhound racing 📢🐶

Please sign and please share 

#BanGreyhoundR…Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7doing new takes..i dont like the ones i have..i dont mind 🎬.#trending #music #rap #hiphop #quotes #livestream… https://t.co/a7hd6Fa6X6You know that feeling where you know what you should do but don’t......shit ain’t it #real #lifeToday's Motivation - Life Lived: Tag someone if this inspires you. #motivation #inspiration #life #longbeachca https://t.co/ZQ20bnSRmHRT @dogsfootprint: Well, if this isn’t the most polite face I’ve ever seen. 😍

Via: 5am281

#dog #dogs #puppy #dogoftheday #cutedog https:/…For the #love of #OccupationalTherapy - #OT365 #FrederickCovington #TheTherapyInstitute #TheOTGeniusBox #instagood… https://t.co/pf1WgtfR6WRT @BNodoubts: doing new takes..i dont like the ones i have..i dont mind 🎬.#trending #music #rap #hiphop #quotes #livestream #business #lif…RT @SaraMakin: 🙌 Anxiety will never go away but at least you can control it. 🙌

🤩 You can sound confident but still have anxiety…  

Be pro…RT @MikeMikwd: This one will amaze -  open pic - the awesome power of nature brought the Devil's pulpit #ScotlandisNow #StormHour #photogra…RT @AAGR_UK: 87,000🇬🇧 residents want #Greyhound racing phased out. Be one of the 13,000 signatures needed now to reach the 100k target.

On…RT @emtcltmkof283: 🤣🍑Never let a thin girl wear this leggings. 
https://t.co/8mtKDPjcZ5
 #motivation #style #fashion #weekendvibes #Hallowe…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help George find a home #CUMBRIA  within 30 mins
Lurcher aged 1 looking for experienced local foster hom…RT @BNodoubts: doing new takes..i dont like the ones i have..i dont mind 🎬.#trending #music #rap #hiphop #quotes #livestream #business #lif…@iamdevloper Lol... I still dont know what my PM title means. I do know there is difference between leading and man… https://t.co/JuzQEwuIlQRT @AKCHercules: Please help if you can, we did! ❤️ @nuggetsdrooling @RidleyHowell @casie190 @abby_bulldog @itsSirGustafson @Catsemail @elv…OMG!! A neighboring town across the river in kentucky has a dog cafe now!!!! I know those are huge in Korea, but I’… https://t.co/HlEpu8fBBXRT @elvisbulldoguk1: Hi my friends if you can help please do and retweet 🙏💖🙏RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Suzie and Murphy find a home together #Edinburgh  #Scotland #dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @K9Loveofficial: Hug your doggos today because it’s #NationalHugYourDogDay !! 🤗🤗 

#NationalSiblingsDay #dog #dogs #dogsofTwitter #catso…RT @avecozave: Remember...
#ThoughtForTheDay #life #quotes #quote #motivation https://t.co/q5PQqTModjRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @avecozave: Those emotions...
#memories #life #quote #music #ThoughtForTheDay #quotes https://t.co/ZAii2z9OdLRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham
Aged 5-7, looking for an adult home with a lot of experience of #Ge…RT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…#EssexStoryPennyToMillionDollar - #Happy.BirthdayEssex - #FairlopCourtLondonUK https://t.co/K5NVJbSXN5RT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…People make a lot of mistakes by feeling compelled to move quickly. - Norman Pearlstein #inspiration #motivation #quoteRT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @mapleveewesem: Please don't forget these 4 #SoCal shelter #dogs . Click on their ID # to find tweets to continue to share.🙏 
FALCON #A5…Perfect day with friends 🇪🇸🍷🥘 #paella #spanishtheme #friends #love #life #friendship #sociallydistanced #ruleofsix https://t.co/abRTX5uUZ7had da best dae todae, stole my dads car xx 
#friends #bestdayevaRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 Friends, if you don't already do so, please check Sandra's profile regularly &amp; help share the pups @ PVAS #Texas , n…RT @carlaacarlson: No matter how long you have traveled in the wrong direction, you can always turn around. #Hope #Motivation #ThinkBIGSund…RT @SjCattledog: Silver 🐶 and i wish everyone a beautiful weekend 🌺.

#Husky #Huskies #husky #huskies #dogs #dogsoftwitter https://t.co/AW8…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @BearBertthe: '... And today I follow his footsteps and stand where greatness once stood'

#dogsoftwitter #dogs #Dog #smileforbert ♥ htt…RT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3RT @PokerProBV: This is absolutely true. I can't tell you how many times I've been at a table and here comes some guy who thinks poker is a…RT @Poetryin13: Only at a carnival will we find pink and purple polka dotted #hippopotamuses"""
Thank God. Now pass the #crisps!
"Think of…RT @K9Loveofficial: Hug your doggos today because it’s #NationalHugYourDogDay !! 🤗🤗 

#NationalSiblingsDay #dog #dogs #dogsofTwitter #catso…My dad always says: “If you say you can’t, it means you don’t want to” So make up your mind, if you want to do some… https://t.co/n8NgtTY9ZfRT @funnydo25814387: 😍😅
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/O6BK54F2vRRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Obi find a home #LIVERPOOL     
#dogs #dogsoftwitterThe important thing is not when you started, but that you started 🏃!

#ConnectingMinds #motivation… https://t.co/YhdXaYBUH1RT @Berti_and_Ernie: Let me cheer you up!  smile #dogs https://t.co/dC1xzp4VmgRT @seriouslyjo18: This is what we need. Happiness &amp; positivity.  Enjoy &amp; make the most of every day. 💜💜💜Use the magic wand of kindness
To improve the quality of the lives of those around you.

#DropsthatINSPIRE… https://t.co/Nj2G2SbdbPRT @kiddopediatv: Rabbits mate for life and mourn the death of a mate or separation from their partner in anger or depression. #animals #di…Care starts micro:
#Family #Team #Friends #Partners #Community 
Care extends out: 
#Principles #MissionCritical… https://t.co/XAoAWw8yi6RT @AdoptionsUk: Urgent retweet please to help Jessica find a home #BRIDGEND #WALES 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿
AGED 14 Looking for a quiet home ok with childr…Check out Vintage #Bakelite #Scottie #Dogs Bookends  https://t.co/ZYJqkhyJOa via @eBayRT @AylaOasis: Nestled in Ayla Golf Club and overlooking the Greg-Norman designed golf course, Silica Restaurant serves guests with mouthwa…RT @TiaJack17: Cuties 🐱🐶💙❤️ #dogs #cats #DogsofTwittter #CatsOfTwitter #Caturday https://t.co/N9tqAFBuGGRT @RidyardColin: Hug a #baby #elephant and make his day; buy his book &amp; make #friends for life
https://t.co/BkRHF07WEV
#GrowingReaders #Ch…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: #Dogs can keep a ball in the air longer than it takes you to sign😂💖
We must keep it up and #BanGreyhoundRacing💔
✒️http…Whatever happens, do not lose hold of the two ropes of life - hope and faith. #MotivationalQuotes #Life… https://t.co/cRbOirQKliRT @FLuKe28719678: https://t.co/COfsnKcVne"

⬆️ 👾 ⬆️  👾  ⬆️  👾  ⬆️ 
BUY some NFTs so I can MAKE more!

#nft #art #nftart #crypto #cryptoart…RT @jkrhonda: Happy Easter 🐣 Wishing you all a marvelous Holiday full of fun today!! #reformation #dresses #Easter #Easter2021 #SundayMorni…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…Don't risk your life👇"
#nature #follow4follow #food #followback @rocket_hastags #likeforlike #swag… https://t.co/dXik8FgH4NRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Unsure baby Beaks has sure come a long way.
She’s turning one next week!  Beakering Intensifies!!
#ThrowbackThursday #…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…RT @lgibson12397: we must be willing to let go of the #life we planned
so as to have the life that is waiting for us

joseph campbell 〰️

#…RT @Hartondar4: Don't risk your life👇
#nature #follow4follow #food #followback @rocket_hastags #likeforlike #swag #instalikesandfollowers4u…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️RT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021

"These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @PetMunchies: #win #giveaway of #PetMunchies #natural #dog  #pet #treats  #dogtreats  #trainingtreats #training #dogs #competition #dogs…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Obi find a home #LIVERPOOL     
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Vjay find a home #SHROPSHIRE  
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter https://t.co/LB9XXoBhHzRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…I  want to die. so I'll just end it . #life @Imheret45140132Just Testing out the Stream, Lets GOOO WE had to leave MIXER But we back here!! #LIFE  https://t.co/qe4oU78VpURT @mimuluxArt: oh friday i was given this awesome bouquet by an oooooold friend which i haven't seen for YEARS !! she found me again throu…RT @mesegyar: One of our #tales is #FREE on #Amazon for a few days only! "
- Also in paperback!
All is well that ends well 😉 

https://t.co/…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fidget find a home #Bridgend #Wales #dogs #dogsoftwitter  🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿 https://t.co/wC5GjooNgKClever Ways to Organize Baby Clothes https://t.co/NvGEADgdMW #babies #parentingRT @queenluluthepug: No I didn’t do anything but I went into the yard. That’s gotta be worth something, right??? #pugs #dogs #dogsoftwitter…RT @eric_okomado: Use the magic wand of kindness"
To improve the quality of the lives of those around you.

#DropsthatINSPIRE
"#BeINSPIREDtod…RT @harrypetsanis: ""Successful people get up everyday and repeat positive behaviors and actions. Unsuccessful people get up everyday and re…RT @chugs_cd: Built for comfort, not speed 😙"

#adoptdontshop #chugdog #chug #chugs #chuglove #chuglovers #chugsofinstagram #instachugs #chi…RT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021

These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @PaigeAnnette: Listen to the #WISDOM tho #life #love #lessons #tears #joy #pain THE #JOURNEY #restinpeaceDMX 💯🙏🏾 https://t.co/TZkOXCwJu4RT @MohammedMalaka: It is not our abilities that show what we truly are. It is our choices.

#CodeNewbies #MotivationalQuotes #motivation h…RT @bubblebeccapugs: Say whaaaaat? ❤️😮🤣 #pug #pugs #puppy #pugsofinstagram #instagood #dog #dogs #love #animal #pet #rescuedog #bubblebecca…RT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGlRT @hackett_dorian: When you create a culture in which employees can reach their goals you boost productivity, morale, and engagement."

#qu…@srfn_fitness INSANE! ... I feel so sorry for myself. This is true #motivation for ANYONE AND EVERYONE. Holy sh!t. Mad respect!!!well that’s me

many thanks for making today special-whilst blue sky and #sunshine brought #JOY your #HappyBirthday… https://t.co/XLyvHpfsYeRT @CiaSecure: Sure looks like the contemporary version of Hoosier's...one takeaway from living in Indiana was every barn had a basketball…RT @juliana_monty: Baby #lamb keeps asking to be petted just like #dogs &amp; #cats would. Live animal exports to be banned in #England &amp; #Wale…RT @gsrescueelite: Misha is just a year old and already had 3 homes ! A very bright and high energy girl who can live with older kids but c…RT @MarlinIsAGoodB1: I got to go in a rimver today! it was a lil scary an a lot of fun. i even swimmed a tiny bit when my Mama helmped me!…Women's Stylish Black 925 Sterling Silver Ring for Wedding #happy #streetstyle https://t.co/gvUAHn8OLc https://t.co/5F5lfstCZfRT @na_delce: Who is horny ? DM 🍆 👅
#horny #cumshot #erection #fuck #girl #gay #milf #nudes #porn #pussy #black #females #shemale #fuckme #…RT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 RIGLEY needs vetting the shelter can't give him ASAP. But he needs a place to chill while he heals. Are you a kind #…Do you believe in sin?
"#blackwhite #blackandwhite #abstract #abstractart #art #drawing #artist #photography #life… https://t.co/8EyNZyQHGRRT @nickatnitetv: Happy #NationalSiblingsDay! #Friends https://t.co/TqEnm6pmUYRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham https://t.co/aDfGLcpnh7RT @DrJDrooghaag: 🔵 Life is too short, or too long, for me to allow myself the luxury of living it so badly. - Paulo Coelho"

"#Quote #Inspir…RT @iamwaynegilbert: ""Whatever happens, do not lose hold of the two ropes of life - hope and faith. #MotivationalQuotes #Life #BelieveInYou…It's almost Sunday.  Hope you're enjoying the weekend and starting to think about how you're going to absolutely sm… https://t.co/BUJacck3opRT @MsmarcyM: EXPOSURE IS WHAT MISTRESS @CallEnvy @ExposeASissyCom DEMANDS"
"#beautiful #cute #beauty #trendy #youtube #picoftheday #mumbai #…RT @JaneHyun: I’ve been on break from Twitter last week to reduce digital overload &amp; woke up to this pre-COVID pic reminder of why we press…RT @zombie_btkay: 1st time playing this...HELP  https://t.co/37dnoxqQf4 ⁦@GamerGalsRT⁩ ⁦⁦@GamerGrowth⁩ ⁦@WorldsSpotlight⁩ #apex #gamergirl…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @avecozave: Remember..."
"#ThoughtForTheDay #life #quotes #quote #motivation https://t.co/q5PQqTModjRT @AKCHercules: Please help if you can, we did! ❤️ @nuggetsdrooling @RidleyHowell @casie190 @abby_bulldog @itsSirGustafson @Catsemail @elv…RT @HeyoExpo: @srfn_fitness INSANE! ... I feel so sorry for myself. This is true #motivation for ANYONE AND EVERYONE. Holy sh!t. Mad respec…RT @Beata_Azlan: I was surprised by my dear fren Sabre &amp; his Mom @Sabre_Pup_1 with this stunning🦊sweater made by @2DogsCandies I’m shocked,…RT @Ilovemy02803780: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
https://t.co/GlYK49APuDDid you even love me at all?
Was it all a lie?
"Like a fool,"
I didn’t even notice
"#HAPPYRT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…Perfect for stopping husbands from playing games!😂😂"
https://t.co/vE60aeymJS
" #weekendvibes #ootd #fashion #hunk… https://t.co/bv9LtGTu0WRoyal Canin Medium Ageing 10+ Years formula is a complete and nutritious meal for dogs; a carefully selected blend… https://t.co/K1JiacUrq3RT @theStonebot: #Legit, boss of the Firestarter Faction. He's an explosive foe with powerful fire attacks, devastating blasts and all the…I hate when this happens. I'm dealt K♣️/♦️ and raise pre-flop, not much, just a normal raise, and all the other pla… https://t.co/oNFN21jaXXRT @tt36crew: #OmarSharif d #MariaCallas in my #PENTAGON #Trump goes #GamblingTwitter d #free our #lifestyle is just"
#life in #Cloud #Stock…Flavors and ingredients that put a smile on your face! 😊 #propergood #spoon #happy #healthy https://t.co/PmY58mmJ86RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Barley find a home #KENT 
 
"JRT aged 1, can live with children aged 14+ as only pet, loves fuss, wi…RT @joelle47019650: For love of dogs "
Please sign and share the Greyhound #Petition 

https://t.co/u4cpzdDfFy

"#BanGreyhoundRacing #mickthe…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @AuthorCschoenig: True love never dies, it may get buried, but it doesn't die."
 
https://t.co/KwgV634094
https://t.co/qy8iGdKJWt
"  #erot…RT @PokerProBV: I hate when this happens. I'm dealt K♣️/♦️ and raise pre-flop, not much, just a normal raise, and all the other players fol…RT @BearBertthe: '... And today I follow his footsteps and stand where greatness once stood'"

"#dogsoftwitter #dogs #Dog #smileforbert ♥ htt…RT @yu_nakagawa: I want Leo to get well and give dreams to those who are suffering from the same illness.  I would appreciate it if you cou…RT @PokerProBV: I hate when this happens. I'm dealt K♣️/♦️ and raise pre-flop, not much, just a normal raise, and all the other players fol…RT @lgibson12397: well that’s me"

"many thanks for making today special-whilst blue sky and #sunshine brought #JOY your #HappyBirthday wishe…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…Somepawdy pls save my bol!"
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
"📹: insta/brian_9229 https://t.co/rnlMnZKcaXRT @harrypetsanis: ""We don't make mistakes because we're human. We make mistakes because we make poor choices and have dysfunctional mindse…RT @Beata_Azlan: I was surprised by my dear fren Sabre &amp; his Mom @Sabre_Pup_1 with this stunning🦊sweater made by @2DogsCandies I’m shocked,…RT @glenn_hamburger: Competition is a great motivator. Competing with your own “record,” on a daily basis, helps to inspire and motivate yo…“Our prime purpose in this life is to help others. And if you can’t help them, at least don’t hurt them.” – Dalai L… https://t.co/uHYQv1q1IERT @mapleveewesem: 🐾💕🐾 #NationalHugYourDogDay ? "
"Isn't every day a day to hug your pup(s)? I don't need a day to remind me to do that. I ho…Daily Motivational Wallpaper - #Sunday #SundayMotivation #Motivation #AlbertEinstein https://t.co/LMHzHn0w1p https://t.co/Vr2YjEUn9zRT @thistleflat: #GoodMorning #UKGiftHour! Hope you're all feeling good today, but just in case you need a bit of #Motivation ❤️"
"https://t.…RT @PokerProBV: I hate when this happens. I'm dealt K♣️/♦️ and raise pre-flop, not much, just a normal raise, and all the other players fol…#Happy Saturdat 🌷🌺🐈. 🎥 Subscribe at Happs: https://t.co/j8qn5rX5OJ #liveRT @LilacGhea: Nothing like a good drink, with a couple of beautiful bunbuns! ♥ "

Commission for @LovelyGimmi 

#FFXIV #FF14 #FFXIVART  #Mi…she is missing pups#The Irony! 

"Dimwit Puppy Miller sues jail for terrible conditions and bad food after she's put there for abusing 1… https://t.co/ggXHEgj33yRT @kirthurgan: I have signed, because greyhounds are beautiful gentle and loving, and deserve far far better than this. Please every one o…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…I want everyone to tell me about your pets, but refer to them as your co-worker."
"My co- worker only comes out late… https://t.co/qLB6oDQqFLI’m going to try and get some sleep. #Goodnight #friends #followers  #subscribersRT @MansiShahVyas: Let's not live #Life to impress someone, let's live life to impress ourselves."
#quote #WednesdayWisdom https://t.co/n6mH…RT @johnwinters14: Come on #Texas Let's help these two beautiful siblings find their forever home. Please open your hearts and homes to bot…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @Todwurdug: Jim is an older chap, retired from his job on the farm and now looking for a furever home to see out his golden years!🐾💖RT @daisy_pom: Friends, I got the most gorgeous bandana in the mail from my bichon pal, Poppy in Scotland! I love it! And it’s from our fri…RT @Techrose11: Knowing is not enough; we must apply. Wishing is not enough; we must do – Johann Wolfgang Von Goethe"
#Motivation https://t.…RT @lgibson12397: well that’s me

"many thanks for making today special-whilst blue sky and #sunshine brought #JOY your #HappyBirthday wishe…Yesterday is not ours to recover, but tomorrow is ours to win or lose."

#hustlehard #motivation #goodboygopal #thegopalkrishnaRT @Cathy_B__: After Workout !!!
#fitnessgirl #PowerYourDreams #lifestyle #emotions #gostronger #silicone #1050cc #hotpants #pinkbimbo #imp…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @lgibson12397: well that’s me

"many thanks for making today special-whilst blue sky and #sunshine brought #JOY your #HappyBirthday wishe…RT @LilacGhea: Nothing like a good drink, with a couple of beautiful bunbuns! ♥ "

Commission for @LovelyGimmi 

"#FFXIV #FF14 #FFXIVART  #Mi…RT @PetSuppliesHub: Royal Canin Medium Ageing 10+ Years formula is a complete and nutritious meal for dogs; a carefully selected blend of t…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @juliehartist: I want everyone to tell me about your pets, but refer to them as your co-worker."
My co- worker only comes out late at nig…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Tango find a home #Cambridgeshire #England 🍀RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…That face when your eating. #goldenretriever #retrieversofinstagram #petsofinstagram #pets #petstagram… https://t.co/iygjJkZ3lvWe have started this twitter handle to support people for their blood requirements. We also appreciate any Voluntee… https://t.co/4P1fbQ9JV0RT @PokerProBV: I hate when this happens. I'm dealt K♣️/♦️ and raise pre-flop, not much, just a normal raise, and all the other players fol…RT @RoroRochBasRou1: Aargghhh mum again🙄🙄, we always have to be polite and be gentle with her when she gives treats. 😅😅Bwah, think we did o…RT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters."
If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…RT @Ilovemy02803780: ❤️🥰
#dogs #dogsoftwitter 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/kU9V1MmSFBRT @texastwins2004: #cindyism #failure #quotes #grateful #success #inspiration #motivation #lifequotes #selflove #quote “FAILURES are the S…Falkor the Luck Dragon from the 1984 movie, “The Neverending Story”... Red River Gorge... 1/2021.. #snow #winter… https://t.co/NQeMncTjLGRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…RT @mapleveewesem: 🐾💕🐾 #NationalHugYourDogDay ? "
Isn't every day a day to hug your pup(s)? I don't need a day to remind me to do that. I ho…Personal outcomes will always differ.
"So, in the midst of these trying times, focus on yours, and no matter how har… https://t.co/FflhADONr7RT @funnydo25814387: Can I go on break? 😅"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
https://t.co/KO8J7RmsMRRT @GTNF_20: Can humans undo their mistakes by the way they're dealing with them?
#ecosystems #ecosystem #environment #sustainability #sust…RT @Alfierescue1: Look at lovely happy Nessy! Please help to find her a home 💜💜RT @K9Loveofficial: Hug your doggos today because it’s #NationalHugYourDogDay !! 🤗🤗 

"#NationalSiblingsDay #dog #dogs #dogsofTwitter #catso…ICYMI: All six #Friends cast members taped @HBOmax reunion special last week https://t.co/oVcmvZDwOQRT @The_Animal_Team: #Labrador #puppies #stolen from #Galston #EastAyrshire overnight 9/10 April. 📞01560321903. #dogs #dogsoftwitter #stole…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7A closer look. I just love them."
"#Kobe #chihuahua #chisquad #dogs #Dog #dogsoftwitter https://t.co/SgyCcgdwYkRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗"
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
"#Annescottlin #happy… https://t.co/ycMnsTHR7cRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @ScarlettBeagle: @HeidiBearKaye1 @seasylvia2005 @rickygervais @JaneFallon ""When everyone backs a top science hearing to prove the experi…RT @awaitinggaia: she is missing pups#RT @MillieandGriff: Zoooommmm!! #dogsoftwitter #dogs Mum forgot to share this photo the other day so we've made her post it now!! https://t…RT @ginaaaa345: @GB_Asi7860 @ganseykid @Tina1Queen @Saori__M @bella_xp @gamer_fulla @ma_yeth @_ItsAngelC @irvinejulie @mabelgasca @leonbent…RT @DIEBO37: Smiling can trick the body into helping you elevate your mood #𝒟𝒾𝑒𝒷𝒪37 #Motivation https://t.co/3T6b71PIrzRT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…RT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾"
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…RT @SaHreports: Push for my shop cos the stuff is #cheap &amp; fucking #great tbh

#NAME?
- Prints from £6.50
- Free UK postage on pr…RT @MaryJoe38642126: .@PeacePalaceKH #HunSen

#EnactEnforce #Laws #Banning #DogMeatTrade In #Cambodia 🙏🏽

#Dogs Are #Tortured 

"The #DogMea…RT @DisabledAnimals: Another 100 Dogs and Cats neutered by the @MiriMission Borneon Team with a TNRM Project in collaboration with @SPCAKK.…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…#MariaCallas MY #life LIGTH &amp; no more time for #lifestyle ME&amp;YOU #free #ArtificialIntelligence Yo #Marketing… https://t.co/CCPMSvmAFZRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK "

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @DisabledAnimals: #ThoughtForTheDay "

'Dogs using wheels and prosthetics can live as good a life as a fully able bodied dog.'

Please he…RT @juliana_monty: Baby #lamb keeps asking to be petted just like #dogs &amp; #cats would. Live animal exports to be banned in #England &amp; #Wale…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @funnydo25814387: 😍😅"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/O6BK54F2vRRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…RT @BethFratesMD: You've won the game of life if you understand that
"you are full of strengths and some weaknesses,"
too. That is what makes…Remember this truth...
.
"#teaching #motivation #languagearts #homeschool #ELAsuccess #k12education #Motivation https://t.co/i9qTf0sN9X😆😆How funny your husband's reaction while you wearing these, you should have these. "
https://t.co/QIHRN0Fven… https://t.co/cZ2TJCziFJWhat to Look for in a Criminal Defense Lawyer https://t.co/oiyciVET49 #life #relationshipRT @_AnimalAdvocate: All #dogs are instinctively heroes🐶💖
Saving lives is just what they do🤗
Now it's our turn🙏

"Sign to #BanGreyhoundRacin…RT @DIEBO37: Smiling can trick the body into helping you elevate your mood #𝒟𝒾𝑒𝒷𝒪37 #Motivation https://t.co/3T6b71PIrzRT @funnydo25814387: Luna was fatally shot while pursuing a suspect. Our hearts go out to her fellow officers — thank you for your service,…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @_AnimalAdvocate: Most #dogs become family but greyhounds become a regularly broken cog in a massive money-making machine🐕💔"

Sign to #Ba…Can I get some support? #picturethis #FYP #help #motivation #worldwidehandsome #bodyguard https://t.co/BjJ5EwQzfgRoll on the good times! 💃🕺👯‍♂️😍🎸☀️🌞xxxThat feeling when you try to help someone but you just make it worse

#mood #staystrong #thoughtoftheday #feelings… https://t.co/KcnaFOzAalRT @pfannkuchenwelt: #arancini #sicilia #catania #palermo
#lifestyle #life #easylife #cool #summer #eating #eatright #whey #cooking #baking…RT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @doglovers2020: 😍👀
#dogs #dogsoftwitter 
📹: insta/molly_theblondie https://t.co/H7H9GQV2IURT @SaHreports: Push for my shop cos the stuff is #cheap &amp; fucking #great tbh

#NAME?
- Prints from £6.50
"- Free UK postage on pr…RT @MakerTechno: Can I get some support? #picturethis #FYP #help #motivation #worldwidehandsome #bodyguard https://t.co/BjJ5EwQzfgCommunity comes together to surprise 'hero' North Carolina elementary school janitor with $35,000 check… https://t.co/qWbs7EObTJI miss people.. It was nice to be able to go to Valencia and see people walking around and enjoying the sun ☀️ I'm… https://t.co/VXDvfHhHR8RT @ktdzddcqed536: 😆😆How funny your husband's reaction while you wearing these, you should have these. "
https://t.co/QIHRN0Fven
 #weekendvi…RT @mapleveewesem: 🐾💕🐾 #NationalHugYourDogDay ? 
Isn't every day a day to hug your pup(s)? I don't need a day to remind me to do that. I ho…RT @MelodiePariseau: Happy #Saturday from Daisy friends! Have a great day everyone ☀️🐾 @dogcelebration #weekendmood #dogs #dogsoftwitter #s…RT @shurleyenglish: Remember this truth...
.
#teaching #motivation #languagearts #homeschool #ELAsuccess #k12education #Motivation https://…RT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
"#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗"
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…I am #happy with the hosting services of https://t.co/WGSLdkbS4Q for the case of https://t.co/kmOCQTFIJb that is a… https://t.co/4tEXXvMVvpRT @thoughtornot: That feeling when you try to help someone but you just make it worse

#mood #staystrong #thoughtoftheday #feelings #sad #…Foxx update: she is still prime real estate for the cats on cold mornings  🐱🐈‍ #cats #dogs https://t.co/FkwvvefhfMRT @awaitinggaia: she is missing pups#RT @esraafeps: nice idea 💡 
for #mumz  #coupon 

#mumzworld AN141 

#mamas_and_papas AC85 

#patpat 8J52XR

"#babies #momlife #حوامل #اطفال…RT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7RT @sharejoynotfear: Community comes together to surprise 'hero' North Carolina elementary school janitor with $35,000 check #sharejoynotfe…RT @lgibson12397: well that’s me"

many thanks for making today special-whilst blue sky and #sunshine brought #JOY your #HappyBirthday wishe…RT @fightclub247: Dakota Ditcheva stops her opponent in round 1️⃣ on her MMA debut. Keep your 👀 on this girl 🔥 @CagedSteel 

#fightclub247…RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
"#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @funnydo25814387: 😍😅"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/O6BK54F2vRRT @TheDoctorASKY: Be patient..
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
#Life #Quotes #Motivation #DailyMotivation #daily  #instadaily #love #me  #lifestyle  #people…RT @AryaTheElkhound: Oh have a look guys this video features me and my siblings. My mummy is silly for doing this. We do love a cheeky wee…RT @SjCattledog: Silver 🐶 and i wish everyone a beautiful weekend 🌺.

#Husky #Huskies #husky #huskies #dogs #dogsoftwitter https://t.co/AW8…#morninginspiration #motivation #motivationalquote #quoteoftheday  #wordstoliveby #inspire  #inspiration… https://t.co/DRIImDPf8aRT @JohnSilver6: This weeks Original Art auction!

#Labrador #DogArt #CanineArt #artforcollectors #johnsilverfinearts #Dogs
BLACK LABRADOR…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @benkubassek: ""A little consideration makes all the difference!"" "

" #inspiration #motivation https://t.co/cFAxHsLx5SRT @DIEBO37: Smiling can trick the body into helping you elevate your mood #𝒟𝒾𝑒𝒷𝒪37 #Motivation https://t.co/3T6b71PIrzRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…Opening Stage of Nine😍😍😍Care starts micro:"
#Family #Team #Friends #Partners #Community 
Care extends out: 
#Principles #MissionCritical… https://t.co/rhxvfoZCH7Care starts micro:
#Family #Team #Friends #Partners #Community 
Care extends out: 
#Principles #MissionCritical… https://t.co/UNj3SHjCApCare starts micro:
#Family #Team #Friends #Partners #Community 
Care extends out: 
#Principles #MissionCritical… https://t.co/ok3xehUNCDCare starts micro:
#Family #Team #Friends #Partners #Community 
Care extends out: 
"#Principles #MissionCritical… https://t.co/LTsROk97OoRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…You are highly valued by your comrades. #goyou #love #happyRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK "

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…Value whoever dedicates their time to you, She/he is giving you something irrecoverable #timeislife #life #time… https://t.co/SUYQygbL0fGrowing; That's the interesting part of life. And that's the part of life that I've always been afraid of is: Kind… https://t.co/gmo8dKzCIVRT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…@LisaCarberg Very cool!"
#EmotionsI’m gonna cry another one of my “friends” have a crush on me. What do I even do #friends #aloneRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @MaryJoe38642126: .@PeacePalaceKH #HunSen

#EnactEnforce #Laws #Banning #DogMeatTrade In #Cambodia 🙏🏽

#Dogs Are #Tortured 

"The #DogMea…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Tango find a home #Cambridgeshire #England 🍀It’s a good day to have a good day 🤍 #downtownmontreal #amazingweather #happy #peaches https://t.co/CwyM7A7mztRT @PatStrauss3: @MaryJoe38642126 @PeacePalaceKH @UngChamroeun @thmeythmey #Cambodia, it's time for you to demonstrate #respect for #life a…RT @getdexterhome: Please leave our posters alone - they’re there for a reason. If you see anyone taking them down contact me ASAP...we hav…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: All #dogs are instinctively heroes🐶💖"
Saving lives is just what they do🤗
Now it's our turn🙏

Sign to #BanGreyhoundRacin…RT @GTNF_20: Can humans undo their mistakes by the way they're dealing with them?
"#ecosystems #ecosystem #environment #sustainability #sust…RT @0contextanimals: little guys at the wrong party 🥺🧢 #dogsoftwitter #cutedogs #dogs https://t.co/Bk1PMyMTFvMesmerized by the peanut butter, blop"

#blop #DoggoBot #reddit #dogsoftwitter #dogs #doglovers https://t.co/Vi68ZXgbeART @GTNF_20: Can humans undo their mistakes by the way they're dealing with them?
"#ecosystems #ecosystem #environment #sustainability #sust…Watson the Dachshund, perpetual puppy and always a good boy"

#Dachshund #DoggoBot #reddit #dogsoftwitter #dogs… https://t.co/R3BPU4KslSLBJ is ready for hot girl summer.

#Chihuahua #DoggoBot #reddit #dogsoftwitter #dogs #doglovers https://t.co/wqdtj5OnNPThat #360 tail spin 🤣🐶
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📹: insta/minidoodlebentley https://t.co/dVaZnhhLSsEnjoy your Saturday!

#saturday #weekend #love #helpothers #give #saturdaynight #nonprofit #washingtondc #like… https://t.co/eLVSlXrVXb.@MarvinVettori defeats Kevin Holland by unanimous decision.

#fightclub247 #ufcvegas23 #boxingfanatik #boxingcoach… https://t.co/55P0bbBoaqWatson hopes you all have a wonderful weekend

#BabyCorgis #DoggoBot #reddit #dogsoftwitter #dogs #doglovers https://t.co/2oUg6unc3wRT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021

These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @jagungal1: Foxx update: she is still prime real estate for the cats on cold mornings  🐱🐈‍ #cats #dogs https://t.co/FkwvvefhfMRT @doglovers2020: Somepawdy pls save my bol!
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📹: insta/brian_9229 https://t.co/rnlMnZKcaXRT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rocco find a home #MANCHESTER 
"Aged 2-5, active and looking for an adult home where he can enjoy lo…RT @TheDoctorASKY: You can't delete the memories.. "
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
#life #lifestyle #lifequotes #words #wordsofwisdom #wordsoftheday #peop…Husband and I are getting ready to attend our first social gathering in over a year. We are 1 of 4 couples that hav… https://t.co/YetYwlSOaDRT @Cjlofus: @official_twords Many things once appear impossible. But by breaking them down into smaller chunks they become achievable.

#s…Never think you fail in life. But think positive alway because of yourself you are #1. What ever job you dream of y… https://t.co/caj41lEQ7pConverse fire

#Workout #Fit #Motivation #Bodybuilding #Training 

"Shoes - @Converse https://t.co/tQlpwPDGWPRT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 Please help KUTCHER leave SEAACA alive &amp; find his forever home. He's looking for a #DogLover in So #CA to #ADOPT or…Have patience and engage in consistent action. Results are created over time and you have to work hard and dedicate… https://t.co/ZcuYHYowl5RT @harrypetsanis: ""People spend more time avoiding their pain and running from their fears then they do healing and overcoming the dysfunc…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rocco find a home #MANCHESTER "
"Aged 2-5, active and looking for an adult home where he can enjoy lo…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK "

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…Keep calm and keep on Truckin' 💙 #motivation #chevy #trucks #ghagedorn24 #colorado https://t.co/Up7wfBy3JCRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshirePerfect for stopping husbands from playing games!😂😂"
https://t.co/TpXZv76UBf
 #motivation #themasters #hunk #style… https://t.co/SBpWOMHZtXRT @aliciagrimes71: Never think you fail in life. But think positive alway because of yourself you are #1. What ever job you dream of you c…RT @barbiesway: I #RT:
• #writers #authors &amp; #bloggers
"• #cat #dogs, pets rescues &amp; needy causes"
"• Inspirational, cute, funny, nature &amp; ani…RT @JonDonahue: The #Friends reunion special is taping this week… Here’s an exclusive sneak peek!!! https://t.co/eLos8j62elsome days i dnt know how i do it but i alwys make it happen an get it done.#life #notworriedaboutnothing @ New Roch… https://t.co/wNdjCCW7cFRT @0contextanimals: poor doggo was too excited 😂☕️ #dogsoftwitter #dogs #funnydogs https://t.co/0oeryca0JrRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️IN PLAIN SIGHT"
"White People Don't Belong In Jail”? So jails are for …?
https://t.co/Dr6eo72OUZ 

#life #liberty… https://t.co/fdC7gFjlmIRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @aliciagrimes71: Never think you fail in life. But think positive alway because of yourself you are #1. What ever job you dream of you c…RT @harrypetsanis: People spend the majority of their lives seeking the approval of others that they fail to understand and realize that t…860lbs ring lift.  Did a bunch of grip implements as well.  One hour live is on https://t.co/afcyNrvdd9 / skellar20… https://t.co/8Zcerc1wjR“Happiness is not something ready made. It comes from your own actions.” –Dalai Lama"

#Quotes #quote #motivationRT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…RT @UnderdogDefi: 🐶😀UnderDog Holders will be airdropped this new Community Reward Token for Free

🐶DogFood

Read article

"https://t.co/GFTb…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @harrypetsanis: ""Negative thoughts are a virus. They spread quickly. They lead to negative words. Those negative words turn into negativ…https://t.co/4dTCNRnXxY HI Sweetie´s. #model #modellife #motivation #young #tattoo #tattoos #ink #inked #training… https://t.co/12E7U0oTocRT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗"
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @belabab: 💥#STOLEN 17-09-18 
💥 #SPROCKER #SPANIEL 
💥 WILLOW 💥
💥 SPAYED &amp; MICROCHIPPED
💥 #DOG NAPPED FROM SECURE GARDEN
💥#SHROPSHIRE💥
"💥 2…RT @quotesrainsite: An excellent read! It is more than a simple travel book with added tips. Grab a copy of ""Living the Quieter Algarve Dre…New in The Brave Writer 👉  UnDangle Your Modifiers"
https://t.co/ICPr886tsF #writing #WritingCommunity #writingtips… https://t.co/wNwMQ6hyhgRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @_AnimalAdvocate: #Dogs can keep a ball in the air longer than it takes you to sign😂💖
We must keep it up and #BanGreyhoundRacing💔
✒️http…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @0contextanimals: my heart 🥺🐶 #dogsoftwitter #cutedogs #dogs https://t.co/gL7Hgmzfz8RT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7RT @NerdOfWarcraft: Broom Vs Dog... The battle. 👁️"
"#Dogs #Doberman https://t.co/oGJb9pCvDQRT @AcousticWisdom: Come jump start your week with a little TwitterSpaces Sunday Brunch hosted by @iAmNawlinz, @InspiredByWayne, @IamDKHamm…RT @PartTimeDragons: #motivation #dragons"
"Retweets much appreciated! ❤️ https://t.co/SFfYQlydSuRT @aliciagrimes71: Never think you fail in life. But think positive alway because of yourself you are #1. What ever job you dream of you c…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGl.

Knowledge is learning something new every day. Wisdom is letting something go every day.

  - Zen proverb 

Grea… https://t.co/Pps1BtvIYBI like to treat everyone I meet like we're already friends.

I'm pretty sure this is a Houston thing. lol

"#friends #friendly #HoustonRT @QuotesEveryda10: ""If you want a thing done well, do it yourself."" #quote #quotes #inspiration #motivation #true #quoteoftheday@rickygervais “It’s wonderful thinking of you all enjoying getting ready to film #AfterLife3, with an amazing cast… https://t.co/xvynW21ccRRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamBasset feeding time "

#dogs #dogsofinstagram https://t.co/Ibmi7qIm5fRT @heatherrose1814: G’morning Friends/ Beautiful Souls!🌹☕️🥐😁🤎❤️ Happy Saturday and #NationalCinnamonCrescentDay! 🥐 Have a super Saturday..…Another belter of a show from the lads #retro4lifeRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Tango find a home #Cambridgeshire #England 🍀RT @gsrescueelite: 2 weeks to get him out his kennel.
1 month to let us walk him.
Add a month for him to trust 1 person.
Another month for…RT @Princes51989945: Mornin frens 😊. Gonna be another beautiful day in the 80’s 🤗. Going for a walkie soon 🥳. Hoomom is happy that her Azal…RT @LaylasWoof: You still have time to enter our giveaway for these amazing flea products 
Open to USA only - Over 18 only 
https://t.co/16…RT @0contextanimals: politeness goes along way 😂🐶 #dogsoftwitter #dogs #cutedogs https://t.co/7AWtjDxEqFRT @esraafeps: nice idea 💡 
for #mumz  #coupon 

#mumzworld AN141 

#mamas_and_papas AC85 

#patpat 8J52XR

#babies #momlife #حوامل #اطفال…RT @Sara39362921: Good morning my twitter friends 😊
🌺🌾☕🥃🍩🥞🌺🌾
Wishing you a weekend that is joyful and filled with plenty of love and happin…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @0contextanimals: “watch your profanity!” #dogsoftwitter #dogs #cutedogs #funnydogs https://t.co/sr50fukxwxRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @bunsenbernerbmd: Unsure baby Beaks has sure come a long way."
She’s turning one next week!  Beakering Intensifies!!
"#ThrowbackThursday #…Work for something because it is good, not just because it stands a chance to succeed.  -Vaclav Havel"
#python… https://t.co/p97xpK5cmlRT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGl#savannah #segway #tours #fun #adventure #buylocal #bucketlist #friends #familyfun #movietours #weekendgetaway… https://t.co/pa05KxXTtwRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Lyra find a home #CARDIFF #WALES 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿

"Lovely Lurcher aged 2, looking for an adult home as she i…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @jagungal1: Foxx update: she is still prime real estate for the cats on cold mornings  🐱🐈‍ #cats #dogs https://t.co/FkwvvefhfMRT @ScarlettBeagle: Even if there were no animal-free tests, cruel experiments on us dogs, &amp; other animals, need to stop now for all our sa…Grrroovy Threads Dog Toy #dogs #dogtoys #petsupplies https://t.co/svcvEiB4HYHow does your #Teen #Daughter #Spend her #Money? #MentalHealth #Healthy #HealthyHabits #Finances #FinancialStress… https://t.co/1EWZaR4rDQNo caption needed..."

"#ball #ballislife #littlepupbigball #campbowwow #adoptionevent #adoptdontshop #puppy #charity… https://t.co/0p7RC7pmauRT @ScarlettBeagle: ""Sound up everyone!"" woofs rescued ex-laboratory @ScarlettBeagle, ""I had the most amazing time in the woods today, spel…High anxiety over task"

task takes five minutes

nap for five hours

#lifeRT @0contextanimals: that was terrifying 😂🐶 #dogsoftwitter #dogs #cutedogs #funnydogs #cuteanimals https://t.co/cFkpltU9FzRT @MillieandGriff: Zoooommmm!! #dogsoftwitter #dogs Mum forgot to share this photo the other day so we've made her post it now!! https://t…RT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ken find a home #Canterbury #England #dogs #DogsofTwittter  🍀⭐️🍀⭐️🍀RT @SealyhamEddie: Lots of tantrums on #UKTwitter today. It’s very sad. Folks need to #BeKind and show some respect. Thank goodness for #do…#Government must prioritise mothers and #Babies 
https://t.co/IlIagbdNL9
#Investment #Maternity #NewZealand… https://t.co/DpnTqxNbnLFor information
Link
https://t.co/3bwY6vRocX

#dog #puppy #dogs #DogsofTwittter #instadog #doglover #dogoftheday… https://t.co/DMtEQOjTCQRT @TheWealthZone: Do ensure your main sales message is extremely carefully matched up for your personal ideal prospective distributor... a…RT @GointoDigital: What Habits do Highly Effective People have?
"#leaders #leadership #business #motivation #LeadershipDevelopment #leader #…RT @Beata_Azlan: I was surprised by my dear fren Sabre &amp; his Mom @Sabre_Pup_1 with this stunning🦊sweater made by @2DogsCandies I’m shocked,…🗣 If Your ready drop a 🖤 below #quoteoftheday #motivation #claimit https://t.co/iIU6nEHj5KRT @Beata_Azlan: I was surprised by my dear fren Sabre &amp; his Mom @Sabre_Pup_1 with this stunning🦊sweater made by @2DogsCandies I’m shocked,…RT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021"

"These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
https://t.co/HL3xKBhh0eRT @Alfierescue1: Look at lovely happy Nessy! Please help to find her a home 💜💜RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @0contextanimals: poor doggo was too excited 😂☕️ #dogsoftwitter #dogs #funnydogs https://t.co/0oeryca0JrOpen your heart and home to a friend for life. https://t.co/xKoAFocWyx #SaveKoreanDogs #dog #dogs #AnimalCare #AnimalRescueRT @Alfierescue1: Look at lovely happy Nessy! Please help to find her a home 💜💜Our @birdie_of_doom new pup Bruno enjoying the outdoors. #dogs #puppy #puppylove https://t.co/nj52i9HizE#happynationalsiblingsday to my first ever best friend @tomvealie ☺️❤️ 
.
.
.
#nationalsiblingday #siblings… https://t.co/0msHQBe0VvRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @MiaMalkova: Smile 😊 

#weekend #friyay #love #happy #style https://t.co/IWkzGoxY2eRT @PartTimeDragons: #motivation #dragons
Retweets much appreciated! ❤️ https://t.co/SFfYQlydSuYour pet doesn't have to live with digestive issues! I can help with an all-natural solution. Ask me!
"#dogs #dog… https://t.co/H83cTVYUXNSuch a beautiful spring day! Enjoying the warm sun and cool creek with #BernerBeaux who is finally getting brave en… https://t.co/MFe1KtLmuxRT @herminsche308: If you meet your doubts in the dark, gloomy days, don't push them away. The way out of doubts is to go with them, becaus…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @BettyBrigade: ""Today, focus on the positive."""

#inspiration #motivation https://t.co/1UlwjQnHTz#party #babies Fashion Girl`s Heart Shaped UV 400 Sunglasses https://t.co/ESlbO4eXlo https://t.co/BPryIMYODURT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gala find a home #Glasgow  #Scotland 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿RT @Dragofix: Open your heart and home to a friend for life. https://t.co/xKoAFocWyx #SaveKoreanDogs #dog #dogs #AnimalCare #AnimalRescueRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…7 ways to naturally de-stress at home"

#inspiration #motivation https://t.co/lVbKP4ErxART @0contextanimals: majestic doggo 😂🥺 #dogs #doggo #cutedogs #funnydogs #cuteanimals https://t.co/S2zIrlwwVmRT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
"#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @natkingcole: Nat and @franksinatra at the 16th Primetime Emmy Awards Ceremony, held at the Hollywood Palladium in 1964. Comment your fa…RT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3All You Need to Know About Fantasy Kabaddi https://t.co/hkKVP8OTsf #life #sportsRT @shubhamkanwar97: Set Boundaries, Find Peace: A Guide to Reclaiming Yourself"
#selfimprovement #mindfulness #love #motivation #selfhelp #…RT @funnydo25814387: Can I go on break? 😅
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
https://t.co/KO8J7RmsMRRT @Dragofix: Open your heart and home to a friend for life. https://t.co/xKoAFocWyx #SaveKoreanDogs #dog #dogs #AnimalCare #AnimalRescue100: Renewing Malaysian connections

#project365 #Malaysia #friends #grateful https://t.co/SqLVspMf8tRT @_AnimalAdvocate: All #dogs are instinctively heroes🐶💖
Saving lives is just what they do🤗
Now it's our turn🙏

Sign to #BanGreyhoundRacin…RT @Cathy_B__: After Workout !!!
#fitnessgirl #PowerYourDreams #lifestyle #emotions #gostronger #silicone #1050cc #hotpants #pinkbimbo #imp…RT @0contextanimals: we’re not so different 🐶😂 #dogsoftwitter #dogs #funnydogs #cutedogs #cuteanimals #funnyanimals https://t.co/SlsyNbDWAkRT @ProsperityZen: #ProsperityZen  #ZenInProsperity  #Motivation  #BobMarley  #Reggae  Please retweet if you agree w/these #WeekendVibes! h…RT @esraafeps: nice idea 💡 
for #mumz  #coupon 

#mumzworld AN141 

#mamas_and_papas AC85 

#patpat 8J52XR

#babies #momlife #حوامل #اطفال…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…That’s pretty scary. I don’t know a single person with positive words. I have to seek out positivism on my own, oth… https://t.co/XkSVwmnpi6RT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾"
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…RT @Dragofix: Open your heart and home to a friend for life. https://t.co/xKoAFocWyx #SaveKoreanDogs #dog #dogs #AnimalCare #AnimalRescueRT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @MillieandGriff: Zoooommmm!! #dogsoftwitter #dogs Mum forgot to share this photo the other day so we've made her post it now!! https://t…RT @dogsfootprint: Well, if this isn’t the most polite face I’ve ever seen. 😍"

Via: 5am281

"#dog #dogs #puppy #dogoftheday #cutedog https:/…RT @jagungal1: Foxx update: she is still prime real estate for the cats on cold mornings  🐱🐈‍ #cats #dogs https://t.co/FkwvvefhfMGrandson Owen &amp; Kaiden always #calls Pap Pap &amp; Grammy to keep us #informed on #Life 😂 ❤️ https://t.co/sc57xYEI3rRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bella find a home #Manchester #DogsofTwittterRT @_JesusDaily_: ...that the #God of our #Lord #Jesus #Christ, the #Father of #glory, may #give you a #spirit of #wisdom and #revelation r…Taken a time slot, is made time. so there’s no excuse. Learn what time you have. #lifeRT @Franki3W: #PadaSpiration #17"
"You don’t save an image of #JaredPadalecki, the image of #JaredPadalecki saves you."

"#Walker #WalkerFamily…L😍VE THIS‼️RT @0contextanimals: his daddy though 😂😅 #dogsoftwitter #cutedogs #funnydogs #dogs #puppy https://t.co/ZNlwvf6ZGLRT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7Positive quotes that will lift you up, motivate and inspire you https://t.co/mJE4GUHVNO #inspiration #motivation… https://t.co/eW40PRVNuPRT @Cathy_B__: After Workout !!!"
"#fitnessgirl #PowerYourDreams #lifestyle #emotions #gostronger #silicone #1050cc #hotpants #pinkbimbo #imp…Remember to tell your loved ones every single day that you love them and hope they are well, you just don't know wh… https://t.co/zNOY7P9OgsRT @belabab: WHO IS TEARING DOWN THE #posters of #STOLEN Dexter IN #HOLTSPUR #Beaconsfield!?? 😡😡😡 #Dog #dogs #PetTheft #DogTheft #DogTheftC…RT @_JesusDaily_: Renewal in Christ. Ephesians 4:17-24  ...that you should put away the #old #self of your former #way of #life, corrupted…RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗"
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021

These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help find the owner of this hound found #TREDEGAR #WALES  #dogs #dogsoftwitter  🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿RT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
"If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @dogfans4: This is pure joy!"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/DoZalzpjJkRT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @DuranWebDev: L😍VE THIS‼️RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Suzie and Murphy find a home #Edinburgh #Lothians #Scotland 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿"
"'Active wee dogs' aged 12, can…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help find the owner of this hound found #TREDEGAR #WALES  #dogs #dogsoftwitter  🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿 https://t.co/0eK…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bella find a home #Manchester #DogsofTwittter“How it started ➡️ how it’s going”"
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/MnHB4OgStdRT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…Quotes
"#TamilQuotes #besttamilquotes #quotes #MotivationalQuotes #smile #dailyquotes #Quote #life #love #Solve https://t.co/iCv0MIOaFBRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…Our town has a 3 dog limit.Rare. Exquisite. Beautiful. This exotic orchid plant makes a loving way to honor   #Green #Phalaenopsis #Orchid… https://t.co/UjqFVLraWtLimited Time Sale, $0.99, K9 Mystery Two-Book Series by award-winning author Bev Pettersen, "

GET A COPY:… https://t.co/XQ8hVHczlkRT @texastwins2004: #cindyism #failure #quotes #grateful #success #inspiration #motivation #lifequotes #selflove #quote “FAILURES are the S…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @joelle47019650: For love of dogs "
Please sign and share the Greyhound #Petition 

https://t.co/u4cpzdDfFy

"#BanGreyhoundRacing #mickthe…RT @Life__Quotes: Because our choices are largely based on survival. But if life is eternal, life is not a question. Neale Donald Walsch #q…RT @K9ComfortDogs: The anatomy of a golden retriever ❤️"

#comfortdogs #dogs #dogsoftwitter #fridaymorning #love https://t.co/icItBbdt6hRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @harrypetsanis: ""No one has ever been inspired by hearing what someone else isn't doing. Criticizing and pointing out the flaws and issu…RT @IndyPerro: “Life can only be understood backwards; but it must be lived forwards.” "
― Søren Kierkegaard
#LIFE https://t.co/MQNjhmbVL3Getting Rid of #Self-Doubt #life https://t.co/x11VTtfC8p via @robertbruton100RT @0contextanimals: why he got a human body 😂🐶 #dogsoftiktok #dogs #doggos #dogs #cutedogs #funnydogs #funnyanimals https://t.co/yDJ2wuYJPVRT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @PierreHnoud: We die the moment we cease to expect anything from tomorrow.

Don’t you ever give up. ☝

Dare! Dream! Do!
🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟

#Leaders…Follow @MotivationBytes for daily Inspiration #Quotes #Inspiration #Motivation #inspirational #Motivational… https://t.co/I6lqdUYUfrThis ever happen to you guys?? Me.a few times.RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…RT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
__: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…RT @0contextanimals: these synchronised tail wags 🤭 #dogsoftwitter #dogs #doggo #cutedogs #cuteanimals #funnydogs https://t.co/IGNNShp7gPRT @DuranWebDev: L😍VE THIS‼️RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…The sun is shining and I have a wonderful time with my human. That's how a doglife should be!!
#dogsarelove #dogs https://t.co/BkveOPWMmSI just got my LG v60 thinq 6 months ago - glad to know they going to keep updating the software .  #LG #happy might… https://t.co/UdZgnbL54NEnding!! Charles Barkley 1995 Topps Stadium Club Division Winner Faces Of The Game #360   https://t.co/FmFSu15Dj3 v… https://t.co/bE2IXulhTYRT @dogfans4: That #360 tail spin 🤣🐶
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
"📹: insta/minidoodlebentley https://t.co/dVaZnhhLSsRT @harrypetsanis: ""Negative thoughts are a virus. They spread quickly. They lead to negative words. Those negative words turn into negativ…RT @RealJohnSimms: Once you stop learning, you start dying - Albert Einstein"

#wisdom #life #business #entrepreneur #education #talent #hum…Lost Place with Blue Eyes.

  #BlueEyes #Eyes #Blue #BrownHair #Brown #Hair #Happy #Smile #Nice #Good https://t.co/wvVS05qINNRT @_AnimalAdvocate: #Dogs can keep a ball in the air longer than it takes you to sign😂💖
We must keep it up and #BanGreyhoundRacing💔
✒️http…RT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGlSetting attainable #goals can help you to keep perfectionism at bay. #motivation  https://t.co/IbxAufQ2mc https://t.co/HIs8ptRfcqSetting attainable #goals can help you to keep perfectionism at bay. #motivation  https://t.co/9EEw1semh9 https://t.co/rb8Twz1TabRT @0contextanimals: his daddy though 😂😅 #dogsoftwitter #cutedogs #funnydogs #dogs #puppy https://t.co/ZNlwvf6ZGLA #collection of #clips from our #Thursday #night #discussion #groups on #life #enrichment

https://t.co/dmbWPzvBcwRT @LadyChessington: Popped into @Jollyestweets and they’re still running their charity campaign for @McrDogsHome - Buy a dog a can of food…RT @Berti_and_Ernie: The sun is shining and I have a wonderful time with my human. That's how a doglife should be!!
#dogsarelove #dogs http…Are you more of a crazy cat lady (or man) or a dedicated dog mom (or dad)? Maybe you have a combination of both cat… https://t.co/AdNA6gnFixTake Action! And Build the Life you want  book by Eddie de Jong 21+ x 5 star reviews #motivation https://t.co/8UgKe8utrbBegin Where You Are #happy #life https://t.co/8ixsHx92n0 via @robertbruton100RT @Berti_and_Ernie: The sun is shining and I have a wonderful time with my human. That's how a doglife should be!!
#dogsarelove #dogs http…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJThanks @KingsofMunster for the Retweet 💚 did you know you can optimize your DNA! Empower your #Life #Relationships… https://t.co/6VdfxbI3S5RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireControl Your Anger by Forgiving Others by @professormsrao https://t.co/FiWKTo5ntf #motivationRT @glenn_hamburger: Making a list of your values and referring to it whenever you have a difficult choice to make can help you from procra…When setbacks occur, learn from them and then use them as a launching point to get closer to your desired objective… https://t.co/sdAMu1SsuVRT @Tammyrea28: The better your thoughts today, the better the realities of tomorrow. #motivation #selfimprovement  https://t.co/2nHtB7DIAx…RT @0contextanimals: he really said “nah i’ll be good!” 😂 #dogsoftwitter #dogs #doggo #cutedogs #funnydogs https://t.co/hIpRx92EPCRT @Mijopets: Competition Time!"
Follow us on Twitter &amp; retweet to enter our social media competition draw to win a FREE Personalised Pamper…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #Hampshire https://t.co/fXGNBIp6jCWe are energy experiencing life in a body. This lifetime is temporary... So let’s gentle learn to enjoy the ride -… https://t.co/VO4PGUE4FvRT @aliciagrimes71: Never think you fail in life. But think positive alway because of yourself you are #1. What ever job you dream of you c…RT @Mijopets: Competition Time!
Follow us on Twitter &amp; retweet to enter our social media competition draw to win a FREE Personalised Pamper…RT @SaintLeumas: Hey Everybody! Here's the verse of the day:

"Fearing people is a dangerous trap, but trusting the Lord means safety. - P…RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗"
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @joelle47019650: For love of dogs 
Please sign and share the Greyhound #Petition 

https://t.co/u4cpzdDfFy

"#BanGreyhoundRacing #mickthe…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @SeemaJhajhria: ""Success is not final; failure is not fatal: It is the courage to continue that counts."" ..."
#success 
#Entrepreneurship…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀RT @Berti_and_Ernie: The sun is shining and I have a wonderful time with my human. That's how a doglife should be!!
#dogsarelove #dogs http…Everything was beauty but not everyone can see

#inspirational #inspirationalquotes #quote #quotes #motivation… https://t.co/c2wg90tWFsRT @KaydenGrayXXX: Letting @oliraptor eat me out after he lets me be the 1st to fuck him on camera. You scratch my back... #friends

▶️ htt…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @isabel_cumming: Why do I admire Skateboarding so much? Because you quickly learn life’s lesson of getting back up. The only way to succ…Happy National Siblings Day! What's your most memorable adventure with a sibling of yours?#kennethandrus #tellmeyou… https://t.co/2QFthgga6IDish Network is hiring in Passaic for a Field In-Home Solutions Technician. Click now to apply!… https://t.co/uHL5f6Ar9IWendy's is hiring in Houston for a Maintenance Technician. Click now to apply! 
https://t.co/84M3KLpYq4

#houston… https://t.co/df0pbdf4T6RT @_AnimalAdvocate: All #dogs are instinctively heroes🐶💖
Saving lives is just what they do🤗
Now it's our turn🙏

"Sign to #BanGreyhoundRacin…RT @theStonebot: Take a look at the latest installment of T.Juan's Video Showcase. This time featuring his buddy, the #Corgi! 🐶"

Watch prev…RT @funnydo25814387: So cute ❤️
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/tqI1MwMx44RT @BearBertthe: '... And today I follow his footsteps and stand where greatness once stood'

#dogsoftwitter #dogs #Dog #smileforbert ♥ htt…RT @360Meditate: Everything was beauty but not everyone can see

"#inspirational #inspirationalquotes #quote #quotes #motivation #inspiratio…RT @hilkkao: It is not easy to retrace the steps taken with a loved one lost. But if you take heart and do it, you get to know that no love…What a fabulous day! Enjoying friends and art at a great exhibition in the Broward Library!"
#browardlibrary… https://t.co/I0XBiIGiyVRT @360Meditate: Everything was beauty but not everyone can see

"#inspirational #inspirationalquotes #quote #quotes #motivation #inspiratio…#life #lesson #startrek @ Lake Mohawk, New Jersey https://t.co/ouBMTksVjbRT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…RT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021"

"These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @ZingBetaPrints: Courage🦋-Zip Accessory Pouch https://t.co/lqEUUkiiYP. Small bag offering encouragement +check free shipping ops via #et…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…He's just so cute sometimes I can't #happy #LifeGoesOnInvest,read and learn ."
#work #working #job #myjob #office #company #bored #lunch #mygrind #dayjob #ilovemyjob… https://t.co/5emF2b4rbERT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021

These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @labisiffre: IN PLAIN SIGHT
"White People Don't Belong In Jail”? So jails are for …?
https://t.co/Dr6eo72OUZ 

#life #liberty #pursuit #…RT @yu_nakagawa: I want Leo to get well and give dreams to those who are suffering from the same illness.  I would appreciate it if you cou…RT @belabab: 🆘11 MARCH 2021 RUBY #ScanMe @sussex_police 
#STOLEN BY MAN IN RED PICKUP REG NO: Y425 WGJ
(SEE PHOTO) 
Liver &amp; White English S…RT @Berti_and_Ernie: The sun is shining and I have a wonderful time with my human. That's how a doglife should be!!
#dogsarelove #dogs http…RT @ZingBetaPrints: Courage🦋-Zip Accessory Pouch https://t.co/lqEUUkiiYP. Small bag offering encouragement +check free shipping ops via #et…RT @bikalshrestha_: Work for something because it is good, not just because it stands a chance to succeed.  -Vaclav Havel
#python #twitterb…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham https://t.co/aDfGLcpnh7RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamhttps://t.co/VAkGHKs7rr - A #collection of #clips from our #Thursday #night #discussion #groups on #life… https://t.co/m8LI2qVgTqRT @harrypetsanis: Rule #1. Be comfortable and confident in who you are."
Rule #2. Don't concern yourself with what anyone thinks or says a…This infuriating situation happens all too often. It's almost no worth the raise at times and more worth seeing wha… https://t.co/sbrfJVhjL1RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: #Dogs can keep a ball in the air longer than it takes you to sign😂💖"
We must keep it up and #BanGreyhoundRacing💔
✒️http…Such a beauty!! Hope to own a @Sabreyachts some day.RT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…Preventing #Hyponatremia or #Water Intoxication: Never Give a Baby Extra Water via @ParentingPatch… https://t.co/5GFHLH6igQRT @ClydeHusky: A single step is all it takes.. to move forward. ✨🌟🐾🥰. Have a grrreat day!!

"#dogs #DogsofTwittter #husky #fridaymorning #F…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter ht…RT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
https://t.co/HL3xKBhh0ePicture in your mind a sense of personal destiny! - Unknown #inspiration #motivation #quoteRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @AuthorErikaKind: One Insight at a Time"
https://t.co/YnUPu5veDM
#Soul #Ego #Life #SelfDevelopment #Awareness #Consciousness #Healing #Br…AlReza World The Edutainment Channel: Imam Ali A S On the Life of This World Part 2 https://t.co/Ctpc98eOAg… https://t.co/0lhT0qSCz9RT @0contextanimals: w a l k 🤫 #dog #dogsoftwitter #dogs #doggo #dogmemes #funnydogs https://t.co/9B6j1wtuPeRT @doglovers2020: Aww ❤️
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/bw99UnbE9cRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ https://t.co/NhpP1P834fRT @harrypetsanis: ""Don't strive for results. Strive for authenticity. Results are often attained by compromising your integrity and charac…RT @BarbaraLoraineN: @BabyGo2014 The perfect moment will never arrive. Sometimes you need to take a chance, risk it all for a chance to fly…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham https://t.co/aDfGLcpnh7💞💋🐾🥰👒👗🐶💕"
 a pose like a Frenchie
📽by:be&amp;co 
" #dogs #doglovers #dogsoftwitter #fashionista #model #frenchies… https://t.co/4PPHoinjpFRT @gsrescueelite: Rosie is 5yrs old and this girl was picked up as a stray, Rosie can live with older kids but she doesn't have the best h…My no drama llama tea infuser - Wally thinks it is for him #dogsoftwitter #dogs #nodramallama https://t.co/68xHJLjdLMRT @harrypetsanis: ""Don't be disheartened when relationships end, people disappoint you, and reveal their true nature. These are a part of…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @harrypetsanis: ""We don't make mistakes because we're human. We make mistakes because we make poor choices and have dysfunctional mindse…RT @harrypetsanis: ""You'll never be an independent person until you become an independent thinker. Everything begins and ends in our mind.…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…New #Dance #music's released "
"#NewMusic #NewMusicAlert #dancemusic #housemusic #electro #electrohouse… https://t.co/t3LzqkNubaRT @ckwlpn: #reusable #Bowl #Lids #ecofriendly #dogs #handmade #etsy Covers https://t.co/ub1rLew52M via @EtsyRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bella find a home #Manchester #DogsofTwittterRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @gsrescueelite: 5yr old Skye has come so far with the help of the #Lincolnshire volunteers, a sweet girl who can live with older kids an…RT @MillieandGriff: Zoooommmm!! #dogsoftwitter #dogs Mum forgot to share this photo the other day so we've made her post it now!! https://t…I just published The Tears We Cry: Reflecting on Recent Celebrity Deaths. https://t.co/2TbL9LYbWo "
#medium… https://t.co/kx4iyKWmnJRT @PetGuild: Save the Date!
"Victoria Stilwell @VictoriaS of https://t.co/w6YYQCHY3M will be chatting all things ""positive."""
- Facebook Liv…RT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…RT @Ilovemy02803780: 😍😅
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/eNmEuZLVkRRT @TaniaMariaWelch: 3 years ago today my lovely girl Brandy left for Rainbow Bridge 💞💞💞🌈 xx #dogsoftwitter #dogs @dogcelebration #Boxer 🐾🐾…RT @DianneDHarman: Amazon Hot New Release! 
Our pasts &amp; our secrets have a way of catching up with us
Maybe it was just Carl’s time
Is it y…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: All #dogs are instinctively heroes🐶💖
Saving lives is just what they do🤗
Now it's our turn🙏

Sign to #BanGreyhoundRacin…RT @emel0371: I say hello to a new week with the magnificent dance of the birds.👋🕊🕊🕊🕊

Reels video by Claire Droppert ( IG claireonline) 💯…My partners in crime...they’re Nukn futz but I wouldn’t have it any other way!! #friends #sisterinlaw #adulting… https://t.co/VHzXuqCW2kRT @0contextanimals: teamwork makes the dream work 🥺🐶 #dogsoftwitter #dogs #dog #cutedogs https://t.co/cNkobGQwEQRachel green 💕
Love this edit so much enjoy 😊 
"#rachelgreen #Jenifer #FriendsReunion #friends https://t.co/dsKpwZBHaURT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
#dogs #dogsoftwitter ht…RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @KariJoys: Think #HAPPY thoughts! #JoyTrain &gt;https://t.co/X7w2jFypNP #Peace #JoY #BeHappy   RT @DadiJanki https://t.co/eP0yQeXmnc“The #emotions are sometimes so strong that I work without knowing it. The strokes come like speech.”
"— Vincent Van… https://t.co/UoTNUpFhafRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @BarbaraLoraineN: @BabyGo2014 The perfect moment will never arrive. Sometimes you need to take a chance, risk it all for a chance to fly…RT @wrustee: 💯 @harrypetsanis   Excusing your mistakes by telling yourself ""it's only human"" merely rationalizes it away. At some point it…RT @thistleflat: #GoodMorning #UKGiftHour! Hope you're all feeling good today, but just in case you need a bit of #Motivation ❤️"
"https://t.…RT @qa_angus: @MaryJoe38642126 @CanadaCambodia @sarahjhtaylor @PeacePalaceKH @Thanathorn_FWP #Cambodia, it's time for you to demonstrate #r…RT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
#dogs #dogsoftwitter ht…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…RT @joelle47019650: For love of dogs 
Please sign and share the Greyhound #Petition 

https://t.co/u4cpzdDfFy

#BanGreyhoundRacing #mickthe…RT @Berti_and_Ernie: The sun is shining and I have a wonderful time with my human. That's how a doglife should be!!
"#dogsarelove #dogs http…RT @AKCHercules: Please help if you can, we did! ❤️ @nuggetsdrooling @RidleyHowell @casie190 @abby_bulldog @itsSirGustafson @Catsemail @elv…RT @Mfontaine23: Day 2/7 @german_alexia nominated me for the challenge. So for my second day I nominate the beautiful Queen Heidi @Agnieszk…RT @0contextanimals: the best of friends 🥺😆 #catsoftwitter #dogsoftwitter #dogs #cata #pets #cuteanimals https://t.co/kmmCIvNCzPRT @ScarlettBeagle: ""Sound up everyone!"" woofs rescued ex-laboratory @ScarlettBeagle, ""I had the most amazing time in the woods today, spel…RT @doglovers2020: Somepawdy pls save my bol!"
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📹: insta/brian_9229 https://t.co/rnlMnZKcaXRT @depot_pets: I not so sure about these kisses —Emma  😘🐾🐶 #dogs #DogsofTwittter #aussiedoodle #boxer #FridayVibes https://t.co/cWqSvgbfuERT @germa_shepherd: ERM HELLO? Tummy rub please!.......thank you hooman ☺️ think he’s getting too big for his boots with all of these follo…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @PokerProBV: I hate when this happens. I'm dealt K♣️/♦️ and raise pre-flop, not much, just a normal raise, and all the other players fol…RT @TiaJack17: Guarding the yard 🐶🐶 #dogs #dogsoftwitter https://t.co/Sc5fEvygH6RT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…""Whatever the mind of man can conceive and believe, it can achieve."" #quote #quotes #inspiration #motivation #true #quoteofthedayRT @MiriMission: Nessy is here and she is looking for her forever home. "

Isn't she adorable?!

"If you would like to be considered, please…RT @ModernDogMag: Tomorrow is #NationalPetDay! For this week only, choose your magazine and get one year of #ModernDog or two years of #Mod…AlReza World The Edutainment Channel: Imam Ali A S On the Life of This World Part 2 https://t.co/Ctpc98eOAg… https://t.co/UEcqA3cwilRT @BearBertthe: '... And today I follow his footsteps and stand where greatness once stood'"

"#dogsoftwitter #dogs #Dog #smileforbert ♥ htt…So very sorry to hear about out pal @FrodoChihuawhat .  Please say a prayer for his family.  🙏❤🔥🎶🎧Get millions, stay humble always the motion #MilliWear #Model #musicartist #hiphop #Motivation #myasu #Atlanta… https://t.co/Yren9TIswCRT @HatefMokhtar: “The #emotions are sometimes so strong that I work without knowing it. The strokes come like speech.”"
— Vincent Van Gogh…RT @AryaTheElkhound: Oh have a look guys this video features me and my siblings. My mummy is silly for doing this. We do love a cheeky wee…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @MaryJoe38642126: .@PeacePalaceKH #HunSen"

#EnactEnforce #Laws #Banning #DogMeatTrade In #Cambodia 🙏🏽

#Dogs Are #Tortured 

The #DogMea…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gala find a home #Glasgow  #Scotland 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿 https://t.co/zfl1KtFrTnRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
"If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…“It is by your #faith that you will be saved. The flesh avails nothing. Everything depends upon faith and #trust in… https://t.co/n4svo5JgbQRT @PatStrauss3: @MaryJoe38642126 @PeacePalaceKH @UngChamroeun @thmeythmey #Cambodia, it's time for you to demonstrate #respect for #life a…RT @hlthylvngdly: Tag others that always set new goals. 👍👌😊🤩😉 "

If you like these posts and want to see more please follow us 

#life #Moti…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Sid find a home #Berkshire #UK 

"Affectionate Husky Cross aged 6, loves running and swimming, wants…Happy National Siblings Day! What's your most memorable adventure with a sibling of yours?#kennethandrus #tellmeyou… https://t.co/T6nZQq3GWFRT @360Meditate: Everything was beauty but not everyone can see"

"#inspirational #inspirationalquotes #quote #quotes #motivation #inspiratio…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bella find a home #Manchester #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/FgjO7FPBfsA meerkat taking a selfie? Why not! https://t.co/5r1uD0qRqJ #babies #illustration #children https://t.co/dgRQ3DFb1yRT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
https://t.co/HL3xKBhh0eRT @_AnimalAdvocate: Beware of #dogs🐶
They might just steal your heart🐕💕

None should suffer for our fun💔
Sign to #BanGreyhoundRacing🙏
http…Fresh powder gone ski touring. Brought the hairy beast along. He surprisingly loves the downhill part of skiing.… https://t.co/Q5Hr56hJkDRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Tango find a home #Cambridgeshire #England 🍀 https://t.co/On7oVZfVe6RT @DesignsNesro: Happy Ramadan Design 
https://t.co/np28IdfiSi
"#happyRamadan #Ramadan #ramadankareem #ramadanmubarak #fasting #Islamic #Is…RT @wrustee: 💯 @harrypetsanis   Excusing your mistakes by telling yourself ""it's only human"" merely rationalizes it away. At some point it…Awwwwwwww poor baby.RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @dogsfootprint: Well, if this isn’t the most polite face I’ve ever seen. 😍"

Via: 5am281

"#dog #dogs #puppy #dogoftheday #cutedog https:/…RT @PatStrauss3: @MaryJoe38642126 @USEmbPhnomPenh @USAmbCambodia @PeacePalaceKH @voakhmer #Cambodia, it's time for you to demonstrate #resp…RT @NunoChooFreedom: Reprogram your Brain⁠"
.⁠
https://t.co/muA4TjlfyK⁠

"#coaching #abundance #successmindset #entrepreneur #business #motiv…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ https://t.co/NhpP1P834fRT @Berti_and_Ernie: Even if the weather is cold and grey, with a dog at my side it is OK! #dog #friends https://t.co/BYHaCFA8UKThey know what they are doing #LifeGoesOn #life #LifeisStrangeImam Ali A S On the Life of This World Part 2 https://t.co/khjezIscbh via @YouTube #lifeofthisworld​​,​ #ImamAli​​​… https://t.co/vvSDY8l2H2RT @BearBertthe: '... And today I follow his footsteps and stand where greatness once stood'"

#dogsoftwitter #dogs #Dog #smileforbert ♥ htt…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @Berti_and_Ernie: The sun is shining and I have a wonderful time with my human. That's how a doglife should be!!"
#dogsarelove #dogs http…RT @archer1_susan: Roll on the good times! 💃🕺👯‍♂️😍🎸☀️🌞xxxRT @futurefightergm: The Making of Future Fighter: When Dog Wrestling Time is More Important Than Game Development

https://t.co/hEjTKuzce7…RT @0contextanimals: this video brings me pure joy 😂 #dogsoftwitter #dogs #doggo #cutedogs https://t.co/qdzyP16q7aRT @futurefightergm: The Making of Future Fighter: When Dog Wrestling Time is More Important Than Game Development

https://t.co/hEjTKuzce7…RT @futurefightergm: The Making of Future Fighter: When Dog Wrestling Time is More Important Than Game Development

https://t.co/hEjTKuzce7…Frank is pleased with the rain storm. #dogs https://t.co/cugQ9UKk06RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @BearBertthe: He took his time but Albert is accepting of the neighbours cats and allowed them into the house🙀 

They had free reign und…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @The_Animal_Team: Elderly #GermanShepherd found collapsed in #Kimberley #Notts 7/4/21, &amp; not chipped."
If you have any information please…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gil find a home #Carmarthenshire #Wales 🍀 https://t.co/l33fd5bY64RT @mapleveewesem: 🐾💕🐾 #NationalHugYourDogDay ? 
Isn't every day a day to hug your pup(s)? I don't need a day to remind me to do that. I ho…RT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
"📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…What is your ""get out the door"" motivator? #motivation #fitness"

A saying? 
A song? 
A vision boards? 
A friend? 
"An instructor?RT @The_Animal_Team: 💥NOT ANGUS💥#Found #StondonMassey #Brentwood #Essex 10/4/21. Now at Wallace Kennels.  📞01277 821032 with information on…RT @TeddyMyDoodle: Saturday morning sleeping in #sleeping #SaturdayVibes #strikeapose #dog #dogs #doglife #dogslife #DogsofTwittter https:/…I don’t remember a time in my life where @StarChannelGr weren’t playing #Friends! For the 78 millionth time, straig… https://t.co/iH9urif40PRT @funnydo25814387: 😍😅"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/O6BK54F2vRRT @Todwurdug: Jim is an older chap, retired from his job on the farm and now looking for a furever home to see out his golden years!🐾💖How to protect your dog from being stolen https://t.co/CbYdOgRhFz #DogsRT @CrossRealms: Good afternoon!😅"

Like❤ Comment💬 &amp; Share✉ to Support us!

#cybersecurity #hacking #security #network #cyberattack #malware…ima let gutter be gutter..im trynna be pro...i dont look for outlets to be very strange and gutter..#trending… https://t.co/mRZFy1EauyRT @MillieandGriff: Zoooommmm!! #dogsoftwitter #dogs Mum forgot to share this photo the other day so we've made her post it now!! https://t…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @JETAR9: What is whispered in your ear
is often heard a hundred miles off 
#Chinese_Proverb 
#Mindfulness 
#Wisdom #Wise #Life /Playing Rocket League. Come Talk!!!!

https://t.co/YwvG7N8m0U

"#Noobs #RoadtoDiamond #2v2 #1v1 #Steaming… https://t.co/DHdT0OUeEFWhy life will be so difficult when we want that to be clam and happy #Sad #LifeGoesOn #lifeRT @SeemaJhajhria: ""Success is not final; failure is not fatal: It is the courage to continue that counts."" ..."
#success 
#Entrepreneurship…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @LabfonUB: 📢NEW ARTICLE ONLINE"

Do #emotions affect the VOT?

"Martínez Belda &amp; Padilla provide answers in their new article in @FonExper…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…Here we go 2021! Let’s study and work together and make progress in life! Feel free to join us! #motivation https://t.co/qjemPM99RBRT @funnydo25814387: Luna was fatally shot while pursuing a suspect. Our hearts go out to her fellow officers — thank you for your service,…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: #Dogs can keep a ball in the air longer than it takes you to sign😂💖"
We must keep it up and #BanGreyhoundRacing💔
✒️http…I DON'T CARE I WILL PUSH FORWARD https://t.co/IKoqdG9mvi

#push #motivation #success #greatnessRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Cooper find a home #LOUGHBOROUGH  #dogs #dogsoftwitter https://t.co/iz1ymTKiZ4RT @BearBertthe: '... And today I follow his footsteps and stand where greatness once stood'

#dogsoftwitter #dogs #Dog #smileforbert ♥ htt…RT @Snishaa2: Good Night to All My ℒℴѴℯly
Friends👫
"Thank You All For Your ℒฺℴฺνℯฺ, Likes,"
"Rtt, Following &amp; Supporrt This Week🌸"
"ℒℴѵℯ You All…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⚕🆘️ Please Help! Truk urgently needs an unexpected second surgery ASAP &amp; we must raise approx. $2000. He's develope… https://t.co/MbtByNNJQTRT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: #Dogs can keep a ball in the air longer than it takes you to sign😂💖"
We must keep it up and #BanGreyhoundRacing💔
✒️http…RT @Snishaa2: Good Night to All My ℒℴѴℯly
Friends👫
After Every Beautiful Day Comes a
"Beautiful Night, Hope You’ve All"
"Enjoyed This One,Take…Full video on my YouTube ! 💓#motivationalspeaker #WHOSHAA #inspiration #peoplepleaser #beyou #motivation… https://t.co/Ey260qynM6RT @The_Animal_Team: Still #missing #Ice #BishopAuckland #DL14 area. https://t.co/JQ7tUWXhWa #dogs #dogsoftwitter #MissingDog https://t.co/…You know where to go for your graphics and visual representation."

@PerfectCreati18 got you covered.Don't be limited in any aspect of your life by putting yourself in a box. Think as if  there is no box and welcome… https://t.co/8mxGP4wDstRT @TheTwelveTails: ⚕🆘️ Please Help! Truk urgently needs an unexpected second surgery ASAP &amp; we must raise approx. $2000. He's developed 2…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Shadow find a home #Shropshire 
"#dogs #dogsoftwitterRemember the name, Jeremiah Milton __"

#fightclub247 #boxingfans #smithvalsov #bennvargas #wrestling #mma… https://t.co/bgI7F4pErZRT @MelodiePariseau: Happy #Saturday from Daisy friends! Have a great day everyone ☀️🐾 @dogcelebration #weekendmood #dogs #dogsoftwitter #s…Practice random acts of kindness and senseless acts of beauty.
#NAME?

"#ENLIVEN #bebetter #qotd #motivation… https://t.co/1sf6kab5CR❤️Dear Friends, I am sending you this timeless beautiful song and wish you all a romantic evening❤️"
"🎧I Will Always… https://t.co/ocAT2SuA8iRT @The_Animal_Team: #Violet went #missing on 8/4/21 from #AtkinsonFarm #ChorleyNewRoad #Bolton #BL1 area. #OldeEnglishBulldog Chipped and…RT @fightclub247: Remember the name, Jeremiah Milton 🔥"

#fightclub247 #boxingfans #smithvalsov #bennvargas #wrestling #mma #boxingclub #box…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @ScarlettBeagle: ""Sound up everyone!"" woofs rescued ex-laboratory @ScarlettBeagle, ""I had the most amazing time in the woods today, spel…RT @HatefMokhtar: “The #emotions are sometimes so strong that I work without knowing it. The strokes come like speech.”"
"— Vincent Van Gogh…RT @funnydo25814387: She was a Pit Bull and she was ""ugly"" and ""unappealing"" to shelter visitors. She would sit in a corner and watch the o…RT @fightclub247: Remember the name, Jeremiah Milton 🔥"

#fightclub247 #boxingfans #smithvalsov #bennvargas #wrestling #mma #boxingclub #box…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Vjay find a home #SHROPSHIRE  
"#dogs #dogsoftwitterLook at those paw sizes! Like Aiva is almost the same size as Kojacks now and she is only 2 months, and 1 week (koj… https://t.co/wYSZYJksGoRT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021"

These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @aliciagrimes71: Never think you fail in life. But think positive alway because of yourself you are #1. What ever job you dream of you c…My @fundrise Income for Q1. My Real Estate #Investing Strategy I https://t.co/wqQValGkta via @YouTube #Realestate… https://t.co/TDIpvx319ZRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Obi find a home #LIVERPOOL     
"#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @Tammyrea28: The better your thoughts today, the better the realities of tomorrow. #motivation #selfimprovement  https://t.co/2nHtB7DIAx…It most certainly does and there most certainly isRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…Australia’s 5.1m #dogs drop a mind-boggling weight in poo, 1734 tonnes – equivalent to nine empty jumbo jets every… https://t.co/izFUCq3ZAbRT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…RT @johnwinters14: Come on #Texas Let's help these two beautiful siblings find their forever home. Please open your hearts and homes to bot…Good Morning! TBJ's Inspiring Coffee:"

#semangatpagi #rezeki #rezekipagi #sarapan #breakfast #selfdevelopment… https://t.co/vJxE52GZn9RT @korayguerel: Friends...
#photography #fotografie #art #photoart #friendship #animals #Human #dogs https://t.co/zPMw9BdctqRT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…RT @56blackcat: If you haven’t been following 
"the story of when Baby Dog came to live with Malcolm the Cat, you’re missing out! "

It’s bee…This is my boy Riley. He made us laugh for 13 years. Had to take him across the rainbow bridge yesterday. RIP to th… https://t.co/1kNWxsOV4IRT @cgbosslady1: Happy Saturday! It’s a beautiful sunny day!  M&amp;D and I are back from our first walk and I have found my first napping plac…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Cooper find a home #LOUGHBOROUGH  #dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @johnwinters14: Come on #Texas Let's help these two beautiful siblings find their forever home. Please open your hearts and homes to bot…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham https://t.co/aDfGLcpnh7""Don't let yesterday take up too much of today"" - Will Rogers"

#Motivation #Quote @BrianTracy

More quotes: https://t.co/tJW8TBH6nUI could never be messy. It's not unorganized. I am an #artist. Everything is #authentic #aesthetic in it's purest f… https://t.co/7BBZl69vNrUniversal Paint Brushes Set 
#momideas #Science #lifeskills #babies https://t.co/SqphV1U0rTRT @emel0371: I say hello to a new week with the magnificent dance of the birds.👋🕊🕊🕊🕊

Reels video by Claire Droppert ( IG claireonline) 💯…It was a great party! Thank you all for coming!!! #frozentheme #seventhbirthday #friends #fun https://t.co/BFbLTnohaCRT @royalscofields1: This right here!!
"#freemason #SaturdayVibes #Motivation https://t.co/1dZKoShCzTRT @ShelteringGrace: ""All life is an experiment. The more experiments you make, the better."" - Ralph Waldo Emerson "
"#quotes #life #kindness…RT @harrypetsanis: ""Rule #1. Be comfortable and confident in who you are."
"Rule #2. Don't concern yourself with what anyone thinks or says a…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…Pose as a friend, work as a spy."

"#motivation #success #wealth #powerRT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Vjay find a home #SHROPSHIRE  "
"#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @whoshaaa: Full video on my YouTube ! 💓#motivationalspeaker #WHOSHAA #inspiration #peoplepleaser #beyou #motivation #loveyourself #selfl…RT @Snishaa2: Good Night to All My ℒℴѴℯly"
Friends👫
After Every Beautiful Day Comes a
"Beautiful Night, Hope You’ve All"
"Enjoyed This One,Take…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…I was slapped in the face so many times by so many people in my life so I decided to stop going to BDSM parties. JK… https://t.co/6nbzzDEIBQRT @ServiceDogPr: This was my favorite toy from my 2021 Easter egg hunt!"
-Blake #GreatDane

"Blake is @blakeshelton's namesake from our #Mus…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK "

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…Limited Time Sale, $0.99, K9 Mystery Two-Book Series by award-winning author Bev Pettersen, "

GET A COPY:… https://t.co/L7G6LYfYnART @Snishaa2: Good Night to All My ℒℴѴℯly
Friends👫
"Thank You All For Your ℒฺℴฺνℯฺ, Likes,"
"Rtt, Following &amp; Supporrt This Week🌸"
"ℒℴѵℯ You All…RT @coolrelaxed: 40 somethings, which was the best years of your life, so far? #life #pollRT @DrSTCrawford: When setbacks occur, learn from them and then use them as a launching point to get closer to your desired objective.  #mo…THANK YOU #Customers #Friends &amp; #Followers!"

You are the BEST!

We appreciate YOU!

Have a GREAT Day!

Learn more a… https://t.co/b1Rd6Hnv8hRT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…Back in the habit
"On a whim, without notice"
Lunch out with some friends

"#haiku #poetry #habit #lunch #friends https://t.co/E50o4hNlXcRT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…Wisdom of the day: no matter how much you might think you know, always remember that there are so many more wonders… https://t.co/JHUgyl2AMURT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Sid find a home #Berkshire #UK "

"Affectionate Husky Cross aged 6, loves running and swimming, wants…RT @0contextanimals: politeness goes along way 😂🐶 #dogsoftwitter #dogs #cutedogs https://t.co/7AWtjDxEqF#Life is meant to be enjoyed..Keep going!  .... Much Love to My man @albenz11 and @reebok for the Kamikaze’s and al… https://t.co/t0aLQO4Fu7How to train your brain. Learn, think, remember. https://t.co/zrKaREULZD #motivation #procrastination #life #balance #mind"
" #Blog“The Birth of Empress Rose, I Want to Live And Love Again” @Empressroseleg1 new book and workbook revealing how she… https://t.co/dI6dnEzNu7As a wife, a mother, and a 18-year police officer, I wrote “The Birth of Empress Rose, I Want to Live And Love Agai… https://t.co/zE4csXVDD6""You are priceless &amp; sometimes things happen that can block the beautiful vision of your blessed life. You must tru… https://t.co/JmZ8oRpVsSRT @IMQuotes_Videos: Never say ""I Can't"" when it comes to something you want to accomplish."

#Motivation https://t.co/S8pYwzZFXGRT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: #Dogs can keep a ball in the air longer than it takes you to sign😂💖
We must keep it up and #BanGreyhoundRacing💔
✒️http…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Violet went #missing on 8/4/21 from #AtkinsonFarm #ChorleyNewRoad #Bolton #BL1 area. #OldeEnglishBulldog Chipped and…CuteRT @gymunstrument: Treadmill for any person.
#fitness #workout #gym #motivation #health #fit #training #fitnessmotivation #healthylifestyle…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK "

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021"

These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @0contextanimals: my heart 🥺🐶 #dogsoftwitter #cutedogs #dogs https://t.co/gL7Hgmzfz8RT @_AnimalAdvocate: Nobody says you have to love #dogs but you have to hate them if you still want dog racing to continue 🐕💔 

"✒️#BanGreyh…RT @IMQuotes_Videos: Never say ""I Can't"" when it comes to something you want to accomplish."

#Motivation https://t.co/S8pYwzZFXGHow to Find the Best Bathing Suits for Your Body Type https://t.co/7A8AjWjWSg #fashionbeauty #lifeTrades buying more Bitcoin.
#work #working #job #myjob #office #company #bored #Wanchain #mygrind #dayjob… https://t.co/ry5e5br8gyRT @jimayoung: Back in the habit
"On a whim, without notice"
Lunch out with some friends

"#haiku #poetry #habit #lunch #friends https://t.co/…RT @glenn_hamburger: Making a list of your values and referring to it whenever you have a difficult choice to make can help you from procra…RT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3RT @ModernDogMag: Sometimes all it takes to fix a problem is to determine the root cause of a dog’s anxious #behaviour. We’ve compiled a li…RT @INSTINC26289171: GOD"
Provide us with a way out From every Difficulty &amp; Grant us Relief from every Worry
💜
#Nature #Uplift #Beauty #li…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Anybody needs massage in jeddah 
#FullBodyMassage 
#bodytobodymassage 
#happy ending
"WhatsApp me on 0565479084 https://t.co/WXgQDHv4wJRT @cgbosslady1: Happy Saturday! It’s a beautiful sunny day!  M&amp;D and I are back from our first walk and I have found my first napping plac…RT @IMQuotes_Videos: Never say ""I Can't"" when it comes to something you want to accomplish."

"#Motivation https://t.co/S8pYwzZFXGRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @IMQuotes_Videos: Never say ""I Can't"" when it comes to something you want to accomplish."

#Motivation https://t.co/S8pYwzZFXGvia /r/GetMotivated https://t.co/dfflIZt5HY #Motivation https://t.co/wIKbqr5W5Q.

Working hard for something we don't care about is called stress; working hard for something we love is called pa… https://t.co/4achCq0m1DRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gil find a home #Carmarthenshire #Wales 🍀via /r/GetMotivated https://t.co/QjyjtctyEQ #Motivation https://t.co/LBOPvki0cKHappy Saturday! It’s #dinner #supper #time if I was a taller #dog #beagle #bulldog #beabull I could reach the… https://t.co/6HTjK7yW1ZDAY 316
1 hour
Total 835 hours
10-Apr-21

The beginner challenging how much improves its guitar skills for 1 ye… https://t.co/NKpC25HD4eRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Violet went #missing on 8/4/21 from #AtkinsonFarm #ChorleyNewRoad #Bolton #BL1 area. #OldeEnglishBulldog Chipped and…RT @10_Ilovedogs: Aww ❤️"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/Q3Xo0stgDJRT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…RT @DisabledAnimals: Another 100 Dogs and Cats neutered by the @MiriMission Borneon Team with a TNRM Project in collaboration with @SPCAKK.…RT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7RT @GsdLoverss: Lion cub🥰🥰

Follow @GsdLoverss for more❤️

"#germanshepherd #dogsoftwitter #K9 #gsd #dogs #cutedog #puppy #Dog https://t.co/…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @Todwurdug: Jim is an older chap, retired from his job on the farm and now looking for a furever home to see out his golden years!🐾💖 htt…RT @The_Animal_Team: Still #missing #Ice #BishopAuckland #DL14 area. https://t.co/JQ7tUWXhWa #dogs #dogsoftwitter #MissingDog https://t.co/…RT @terripearsons: Join us tomorrow at @EagleMt, LIVE online or in-person at 9 am CT &amp; 11 am CT for powerful praise, worship, and an on-tim…RT @blood_saver: We have started this twitter handle to support people for their blood requirements. We also appreciate any Volunteer to jo…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGlRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help find the owner of this hound found #TREDEGAR #WALES  #dogs #dogsoftwitter  🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @Kraturescuedog: Meet my family! Left to right. Paqo, Polo then me! Raffy my younger brother and Maia the wolfdog #family #cute #dogs we…RT @kimlanikolaus: Control Your Anger by Forgiving Others by @professormsrao https://t.co/FiWKTo5ntf #motivationRT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
https://t.co/HL3xKBhh0eRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Obi find a home #LIVERPOOL     
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @Eli_Krumova: How silicon-based #life comes into being

#engineering #neuralnetwork #automation #DEVCommunity #Programming #100DaysOfCod…RT @56blackcat: If you haven’t been following 
"the story of when Baby Dog came to live with Malcolm the Cat, you’re missing out! "

It’s bee…RT @10_Ilovedogs: Aww ❤️
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/Q3Xo0stgDJRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Unsure baby Beaks has sure come a long way.
She’s turning one next week!  Beakering Intensifies!!
#ThrowbackThursday #…RT @korayguerel: Friends...
#photography #fotografie #art #photoart #friendship #animals #Human #dogs https://t.co/zPMw9BdctqRT @EOLCNY: “Let our advance worrying become advance thinking and planning” -- Winston Churchill

"#advanceplanning #advancedirectives #endo…RT @IMQuotes_Videos: Never say ""I Can't"" when it comes to something you want to accomplish."

#Motivation https://t.co/S8pYwzZFXGRT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGlRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HAMPSHIRE 

"'Amazing character' Lurcher Cross aged approx 1, affectionate, hous…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @Snishaa2: Good Night to All My ℒℴѴℯly"
Friends👫
After Every Beautiful Day Comes a
"Beautiful Night, Hope You’ve All"
"Enjoyed This One,Take…RT @thistleflat: #GoodMorning #UKGiftHour! Hope you're all feeling good today, but just in case you need a bit of #Motivation ❤️"
https://t.…RT @bikalshrestha_: Happiness does not come about only due to external circumstances; it mainly derives from inner attitudes. -Dalai Lama
"#…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @harrypetsanis: ""Successful people get up everyday and repeat positive behaviors and actions. Unsuccessful people get up everyday and re…RT @jasoncaine: Never make drastic life changing decisions when completely consumed by anger or sadness. Take a moment &amp; let the situation…Saturday snack time at my desk with Darwin:). #neurotwitter #MedTwitter #DogsofTwittter #dogs https://t.co/G5FJ6jaHLXRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @AdoptionsUk: TEAR JERKER please retweet, urgent FOSTER HOME wanted for Zak #BERKSHIRE "
"Affectionate Rottweiler aged 9, looking for adul…RT @dlhampton: You can find peace and calm 😊  within even in when chaos is all around you. 😮 (Like is happening all too much these days!)…@TaniaHopkins3 Hey #NYCACC why are all of Sweet Poppy's applications being denied? "
"Please explain and don't #kill… https://t.co/4CpVECUsSJRT @dlhampton: Are you reacting, which increases cortisol, the stress hormone, or responding, which calms your brain and body? Reacting is…RT @dlhampton: Just because something makes me uncomfortable doesn’t mean it’s bad. It means that I need to work with my discomfort."

"4 Ste…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…@PillarPaxton #Happy belated HUMP Day! "
😊😍RT @Snishaa2: Good Night to All My ℒℴѴℯly
Friends👫
"Thank You All For Your ℒฺℴฺνℯฺ, Likes,"
"Rtt, Following &amp; Supporrt This Week🌸"
"ℒℴѵℯ You All…RT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…RT @texastwins2004: #cindyism #failure #quotes #grateful #success #inspiration #motivation #lifequotes #selflove #quote “FAILURES are the S…RT @texastwins2004: #cindyism #quotes #media #commonsense #wisdom #motivation #lifequotes #quote ""the STRAIGHTEST tree IN the FOREST, stand…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage"
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…RT @AuthorEddie: Take Action! And Build the Life you want  book by Eddie de Jong 21+ x 5 star reviews #motivation https://t.co/8UgKe8utrbRT @Eli_Krumova: How silicon-based #life comes into being

"#engineering #neuralnetwork #automation #DEVCommunity #Programming #100DaysOfCod…If at least you’re happy,"
it’s a happy ending
"I’m not being sarcastic,"
I hope you know I mean it
#HAPPYRT @qsinlol: Chase your dream and live your life just never give up 
#Motivation #quote #juicewrld https://t.co/g7Cehuo5A9RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
"If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…RT @Beata_Azlan: I was surprised by my dear fren Sabre &amp; his Mom @Sabre_Pup_1 with this stunning🦊sweater made by @2DogsCandies I’m shocked,…RT @MischiefAndFun: You never lose Friends."
Real ones will always stay - no matter what
"and the fakes, you don't need anyways."
#Friends #To…You are missing out !!
.
.
Join us on our next adventure!
.
.
#acedivingmiami #anchor #love #friends #sun #miami… https://t.co/8rLN6lEyAFRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Obi find a home #LIVERPOOL     
#dogs #dogsoftwitterKeep your pets teeth and mouth in tip top shape by using Hexarinse.  #petlovers #pets #dogs #cats #petbargains… https://t.co/lgrkfhZIN8Patience is the realization that the quality of your life is much more significant than the quantity of the things… https://t.co/VJQkmlWbrD#hi am giving body to body massage in jeddah
#full body massage in jeddah
#happy ending call me 0590253342💕💕💕💖💖💖 https://t.co/nzmJhwkYcBRT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7dont make me jealous if u wanna talk build the courage....🤷‍♂️🚶 ..#trending #music #rap #hiphop #quotes #livestream… https://t.co/LCrS23ELoyRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @byn_serotonin: Omg! Look at this tiny cutie 😍 🐶 ❤️
"#dog #dogs #dogtwitter #doggy #doglife #dogsoftwitter #puppy #friends #petslife http…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…10 Rules to Live By Every Single Day https://t.co/eyUmWMI0YZ #AWR #inspiration #life #fun #courageRT @INSTINC26289171: #MIND in the clouds"
Clouds symbolizes veils that shroud GOD #Sky not the limit👉MIND is

#MindsetReset
PUT #GOD 1st NEV…Saturday kinda mood....

"#zentai #morph #dance #fun #enjoy #chill #enjoy #life #cosplay #red #solid #costumes… https://t.co/3nSsevLLdoUniverse wishes you the world of happiness,  and this little thing inside you is a hurdle on your way to HAPPY YOU!… https://t.co/PPEXGJrZplRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Obi find a home #LIVERPOOL "

"German Shep/Malamute aged 7 'playful teddy', looking for an experience…RT @Berti_and_Ernie: The sun is shining and I have a wonderful time with my human. That's how a doglife should be!!"
"#dogsarelove #dogs http…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…Life will knock you down."

Will you stand back up?

#motivation #quotesRT @Protect_Wldlife: Another 100 Dogs and Cats neutered by the @MiriMission Borneon Team with a TNRM Project in collaboration with @SPCAKK.…RT @INSTINC26289171: BE YOU THE WORLD WILL ADJUST
🌷
"#Nature #Uplift #Beauty #life #Spring #photography #Smart #Art #Artistic #Art #love #Ex…RT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…Please help @FusiologyP to get this to a TV screen near you. Help them reach the general public who don’t access Fa… https://t.co/59uPl0abZxAmericas eShop Update: Crash Bandicoot 4, Stubbs the Zombie, Cyanide &amp; Happiness – Freakpocalypse | NintendoSoup… https://t.co/w7kmdcph2lRT @KyheemR: Setting attainable #goals can help you to keep perfectionism at bay. #motivation  https://t.co/9EEw1semh9 https://t.co/rb8Twz1…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu"

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…""If you can't feed a hundred people, then feed just one."" Mother Teresa #lifeBetter than a thousand hollow words, is one word that brings peace.   -Buddha"
"        #inspiration #motivation #programmingWhat Can A $1 Tip Do To A Writer? - #motivation #tip #writer https://t.co/w8HyX1BCpdSo beautiful #lifeRT @Ranal55: Life is lived in the moment; if you live it any other way, you've missed it."

"#quote #Life #Today #SaturdaySunshine https://t.…RT @IMQuotes_Videos: Never say ""I Can't"" when it comes to something you want to accomplish."

"#Motivation https://t.co/S8pYwzZFXGRT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…RT @LollyDaskal: Patience is the realization that the quality of your life is much more significant than the quantity of the things you fil…RT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”"
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
"📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…RT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3Excited to share the latest addition to my #etsy shop: dachshund keyring leather dog keyring sausage dog keychain d… https://t.co/ZrDXSkukALRT @xDivineMariax: Don't mind me just posting old stuff until I find inspiration for new manips XD"

#sessrin #babies #sesshomaru #setsuna #…RT @realtannerclar: Life will knock you down.

Will you stand back up?

#motivation #quotesRT @LollyDaskal: Patience is the realization that the quality of your life is much more significant than the quantity of the things you fil…RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
"#Annescottlin #happy #video…Azlan, It's so cute.Looks so nice on you. So nice of Sabre &amp; Mom.🙏💗😍😘RT @Beata_Azlan: I was surprised by my dear fren Sabre &amp; his Mom @Sabre_Pup_1 with this stunning🦊sweater made by @2DogsCandies I’m shocked,…😍Husband's Favorite Leggings!💋 💯Perfect for yoga, running, fitness, and various leisure activities… https://t.co/WeSjEOmLOZRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️RT @funnydo25814387: Luna was fatally shot while pursuing a suspect. Our hearts go out to her fellow officers — thank you for your service,…RT @aliciagrimes71: Never think you fail in life. But think positive alway because of yourself you are #1. What ever job you dream of you c…RT @Snishaa2: Good Night to All My ℒℴѴℯly"
Friends👫
After Every Beautiful Day Comes a
"Beautiful Night, Hope You’ve All"
"Enjoyed This One,Take…RT @PartTimeDragons: #motivation #dragons"
Retweets much appreciated! ❤️ https://t.co/SFfYQlydSuRT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…Jacquavis - Down To Ride (Song in the works)

*The Bad Nigga's Songs*

"#trap #hiphop #rnb #randb #soundcloud #music… https://t.co/XdGNeBFzZtRT @LollyDaskal: Patience is the realization that the quality of your life is much more significant than the quantity of the things you fil…RT @IMQuotes_Videos: Never say ""I Can't"" when it comes to something you want to accomplish."

#Motivation https://t.co/S8pYwzZFXGRT @passion_scott: Good looking Golden Retriever puppies for sale Male and Female available #goldenretrievers #GoldenRetriever #doggy #pets…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Tango find a home #Cambridgeshire #England 🍀RT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: #Dogs can keep a ball in the air longer than it takes you to sign😂💖
We must keep it up and #BanGreyhoundRacing💔
✒️http…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: Beware of #dogs🐶
They might just steal your heart🐕💕

None should suffer for our fun💔
Sign to #BanGreyhoundRacing🙏
"http…Happy 3 years babe! #MrAndMrsDavis #anniversary #threeyears #love #happy https://t.co/iyBqEcLQEbRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…@ginachron Plz RT ⬆ "
Poppies needs to find a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC to #FOSTER her STAT . Plz apply on link… https://t.co/Q8i7dNlYFcRT @na_delce: I'm horny. Who masturbates? Come DM 😈💦💦
#horny #cumshot #erection #fuck #girl #gay #milf #nudes #porn #pussy #black #females…Who’s up for a little 💦WET💦 Saturday action??
Follow me on OF (link in the bio) 😛
"#onlyfans #nudes #botty #sex… https://t.co/cBpA9W7AUFRT @Davis163: Setting attainable #goals can help you to keep perfectionism at bay. #motivation  https://t.co/IbxAufQ2mc https://t.co/HIs8pt…i just want #friends@irvinejulie @_Jenzy__ @italianostyle2 @ganseykid @ginaaaa345 @vilaandrealili1 @Leiluna9 @MarEthr @LuisMiguelClav1… https://t.co/8eNPe58tFJPromote it on https://t.co/NhFreEO2uWOut of all my friends I have not one of you wanted to be a damn chiropractor?! 😩 smfh #friends💚Dm for promo on  https://t.co/R9rLY8gGmO 💚💯RT @0contextanimals: he really said “nah i’ll be good!” 😂 #dogsoftwitter #dogs #doggo #cutedogs #funnydogs https://t.co/hIpRx92EPCRT @MagdalenaMeisel: ❤️Dear Friends, I am sending you this timeless beautiful song and wish you all a romantic evening❤️"
🎧I Will Always Lov…#happy #foodporn World Cup Themed Glass Pint for Beer https://t.co/xZoOpgtvD9 https://t.co/WCXJ9OqwciRT @depot_pets: I not so sure about these kisses —Emma  😘🐾🐶 #dogs #DogsofTwittter #aussiedoodle #boxer #FridayVibes https://t.co/cWqSvgbfuERT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
"If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…RT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
"https://t.co/HL3xKBhh0eLOVE is all you need!!!! Celebrating the present moment with nature and people who loce people!! #love #family… https://t.co/bg9q9ZNm1WRT @CenterOsoul: The Day of Judgment will be a dark day wherein people will be guided only by the light of their good works in this life. #…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @sensie_bot: Better than a thousand hollow words, is one word that brings peace.   -Buddha"
        #inspiration #motivation #programmingRT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGlRT @exitrealtycorp: #EXITRealty #MorrisCode: ""Deliberately seek opportunities for kindness, sympathy, and patience."" #quote #motivation #in…Name 1 or 2 things about you and your presence on the planet that brightens #Life and others experience of Life."

I… https://t.co/5dDOgnzamhSix scientists. Six suicides. What secret are they dying to protect? https://t.co/Y3cskskurR #goodread #happy Do you think could happen?RT @joelle47019650: For love of dogs 
Please sign and share the Greyhound #Petition 

https://t.co/u4cpzdDfFy

#BanGreyhoundRacing #mickthe…RT @gsrescueelite: 2 weeks to get him out his kennel.
1 month to let us walk him.
Add a month for him to trust 1 person.
Another month for…RT @MillieandGriff: Zoooommmm!! #dogsoftwitter #dogs Mum forgot to share this photo the other day so we've made her post it now!! https://t…Top 10 Sexiest and Hottest Celebrities (Female) of the World https://t.co/qBqlZG7xJI #entertainment #lifeRT @MaryJoe38642126: .@PeacePalaceKH #HunSen

#EnactEnforce #Laws #Banning #DogMeatTrade In #Cambodia 🙏🏽

#Dogs Are #Tortured 

"The #DogMea…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @PokerProBV: I hate when this happens. I'm dealt K♣️/♦️ and raise pre-flop, not much, just a normal raise, and all the other players fol…“Namaste Madafaka! #acrylics on #14x20 #canvas #forsale #traditionalart #renelopezart inspired by a Jaguar collab p… https://t.co/FQSc8n4xrr📷 Starship SN10 Rolls Out to Boca Chica Launch Site After Starship SN9 Scrubs Launch Attempt SpaceX is set to roll… https://t.co/EUsqzYD0jjRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK "

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @cmelitawebbpoem: ""You are priceless &amp; sometimes things happen that can block the beautiful vision of your blessed life. You must trust…RT @LollyDaskal: Patience is the realization that the quality of your life is much more significant than the quantity of the things you fil…RT @IMQuotes_Videos: Never say ""I Can't"" when it comes to something you want to accomplish."

#Motivation https://t.co/S8pYwzZFXGRT @mapleveewesem: 🐾💕🐾 #NationalHugYourDogDay ? 
"Isn't every day a day to hug your pup(s)? I don't need a day to remind me to do that. I ho…RT @MaggieandKoko: We did it friends! We got to walk in the water and feel the sand between our paws. Mom got tons of pics! We think we lik…RT @harrypetsanis: ""Negative thoughts are a virus. They spread quickly. They lead to negative words. Those negative words turn into negativ…“How it started ➡️ how it’s going”"
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/NcfuAZLwzMRT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @funnydo25814387: 😍😅
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/O6BK54F2vRThat #360 tail spin 🤣🐶
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
"📹: insta/minidoodlebentley https://t.co/HSZzmdvMCoRT @0contextanimals: the best of friends 🥺😆 #catsoftwitter #dogsoftwitter #dogs #cata #pets #cuteanimals https://t.co/kmmCIvNCzPRT @CenterOsoul: ""Allah the one true God is the Creator of life, death, and life after death (Last Day). "

Find more about Islam: 
"https://…If you feel like giving up, look back at how far you've come. "

#motivation #model #locs #ebony #positivevibes… https://t.co/RpHxyidBN7RT @_AnimalAdvocate: #Dogs can keep a ball in the air longer than it takes you to sign😂💖
We must keep it up and #BanGreyhoundRacing💔
✒️http…COLLEGE ADMISSIONS: CLASS OF 2025 — via @pensignal #education #collegeadvising #reading #writing #writer… https://t.co/cx6MoJ08dvRT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…Sitting here putting a plan together for my next project. Go stream “X Shots” if you haven’t already. It’s availabl… https://t.co/qKywX0VBKs#Massage #B2B #Happy ending with affordable price. 
#Location: Jeddah
#Contact: 0560433945 https://t.co/VmptJlPsRZ“Believe you can and you are halfway there.” #life #quotesRT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJAdjust your perspective and mindset when needed 
#inspiration #motivation https://t.co/ePpLOyIKwKRT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…#happy #streetstyle #moda Shockproof Protective Case for Phones https://t.co/brLbE8ZaY7 https://t.co/6o4MfRSm4NRT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…Failure is not the opposite of success; it's part of the success🤩

#motivation #entrepreneur #business #inspiration… https://t.co/hyG2RnA6nuPerfect for stopping husbands from playing games!😂😂
https://t.co/YwJ1qk8Mf4
" #fitness #gym #Halloween #motivation… https://t.co/vqEIXZdi7vRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
"#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ https://t.co/NhpP1P834fRT @funnydo25814387: 😅😅🥰"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/BaHjG21sm3Do ensure your main sales message is extremely carefully matched up for your personal ideal prospective distributor… https://t.co/I64UFszEGyRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Sid find a home #Berkshire #UK 

"Affectionate Husky Cross aged 6, loves running and swimming, wants…ASPIRIN for Overnight Remedy of Acne and Pimples https://t.co/6TAqbacb8m"
#tagfire #lifestyle #healthcare #health… https://t.co/AgrHRu4O2CRT @mapleveewesem: @ginachron Plz RT ⬆ 
Poppies needs to find a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC to #FOSTER her STAT . Plz apply on links in…RT @MotivationBytes: Follow @MotivationBytes for daily Inspiration #Quotes #Inspiration #Motivation #inspirational #Motivational #Motivatio…Follow us for new posts daily! 💪🏋️💦 #fitness #motivation #gym #workout #health #diet #gymmotivation https://t.co/QRdEGdoaUYRT @SPPhotonic: The Best Inventions make Really Complex Things Incredibly Simple
#Entrepreneur #Leadership #Motivation #EngineeringFollow us for new posts daily! 💪🏋️💦 #fitness #motivation #gym #workout #health #diet #gymmotivation https://t.co/cvw5BBpnu7RT @passion_scott: Top quality Golden Retriever puppies available... #GoldenRetrievers #dogs #DogsofTwittter #puppies #pets https://t.co/HE…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 Please help KUTCHER leave SEAACA alive &amp; find his forever home. He's looking for a #DogLover in So #CA to #ADOPT or…RT @emel0371: I say hello to a new week with the magnificent dance of the birds.👋🕊🕊🕊🕊

"Reels video by Claire Droppert ( IG claireonline) 💯…RT @harrypetsanis: ""Successful people get up everyday and repeat positive behaviors and actions. Unsuccessful people get up everyday and re…RT @johnwinters14: @TaniaHopkins3 Hey #NYCACC why are all of Sweet Poppy's applications being denied? "
"Please explain and don't #kill Poppy…I've done this with aces, kings, queens, and jacks lol. #pokerRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham https://t.co/aDfGLcpnh7RT @The_Animal_Team: 🆘MISSING DINNINGTON NEWCASTLE NE13# Went #missing in fields in #Dinnington 7/4/21. https://t.co/rw6XkNMXF6 #dogs #dogs…RT @The_Animal_Team: Puppy #stolen from #Bisley #Surrey area, after two men went to the owner's home. Chipped. I am really having to bite m…Tha i sneachd ann a-muigh?"
It is snowing outside? ❄️ ❄️ ❄️ 
"#Scotland #snow #dog #dogs #dogsoftwitter #rescuedog https://t.co/oVRgPLX6cLRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Tango find a home #Cambridgeshire #England 🍀RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help find homes for Fergal, Cody and Teddy (separately) #BALLYMENA #NorthernIreland "

For details of the…RT @56blackcat: If you haven’t been following 
"the story of when Baby Dog came to live with Malcolm the Cat, you’re missing out! "

"It’s bee…Could our property be more beautiful this Spring? Nah, I don't think so! #californiapoppies #beautifulday… https://t.co/HPx2DSnAzM$31.90 Summer Bodysuit Women Halter Backless Club Mini Overall Sexy Fringe Lace Up https://t.co/5KcXNRRDI3 #women… https://t.co/DHc9ZcMvD4RT @PokerProBV: I hate when this happens. I'm dealt K♣️/♦️ and raise pre-flop, not much, just a normal raise, and all the other players fol…Heal &amp; Prosper 💫"
.
.
.
.

#prosperity #love #abundance #peace #wealth #success #happiness #motivation #wellness… https://t.co/1uO63DtkyMRT @JaceyMoji: Heal &amp; Prosper 💫
.
.
.
.

#prosperity #love #abundance #peace #wealth #success #happiness #motivation #wellness #health #mon…RT @johnwinters14: @TaniaHopkins3 Hey #NYCACC why are all of Sweet Poppy's applications being denied? 
Please explain and don't #kill Poppy…RT @DIEBO37: Smiling can trick the body into helping you elevate your mood #𝒟𝒾𝑒𝒷𝒪37 #Motivation https://t.co/3T6b71PIrzRT @na_delce: Who is horny ? DM 🍆 👅
#horny #cumshot #erection #fuck #girl #gay #milf #nudes #porn #pussy #black #females #shemale #fuckme #…RT @LollyDaskal: Patience is the realization that the quality of your life is much more significant than the quantity of the things you fil…RT @LollyDaskal: Patience is the realization that the quality of your life is much more significant than the quantity of the things you fil…RT @OscarJetson: Dog Art is for life not just for Christmas...

#dogs #art 

UK : https://t.co/Jta9ElygSm

USA : https://t.co/qcTSJJMpLe ht…(SNEAK PEEK)
"YOU DON'T WANT TO MISS TOMORROW'S VIDEO, WE HAVE SOMETHING TO SAY..."
#JustTheMonks 
#People
#Life
(LIN… https://t.co/EPdgUM7cCsRT @NJBIGSEAN: Inspired Mondays 💥
"Goals dont have a Deadline, Stay Motivated and Continue Striving..💪 "
"#pecs #goals #positivity #motivation…The fastest running bird is the Ostrich, which has been clocked at 97.5 kilometres per hour @OMGFacts #dogs"
"Sat Apr… https://t.co/MdkYecMmG6RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…Yes everyone please help! Every little bit appreciated!Check out this fun article! The Crowning of Ms. COVID Beverly Hills! | Medium - via @pensignal #beverly hills #los… https://t.co/otVt5UhVSyRT @AKCHercules: Please help if you can, we did! ❤️ @nuggetsdrooling @RidleyHowell @casie190 @abby_bulldog @itsSirGustafson @Catsemail @elv…RT @GrandpaSpectrum: Hi Respected  #Friends "
Hello  #TweeterWorld 
My  #photograghy 👇
"Good Evening , Welcome To My  New  A/c"
The  Happiest…#Happy 😄 #NationalSiblingsDay some #Oldies but #goodies #WeAreFamily 🥰😍 From #Hawaii #vacation #2006 to #weddings… https://t.co/n1SG3IEeV6RT @AdoptionsUk: Urgent retweet please to help Jessica find a home #BRIDGEND #WALES 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿
AGED 14 Looking for a quiet home ok with childr…RT @na_delce: Who is horny ? 🍆 👅👌
#horny #cumshot #erection #fuck #girl #gay #milf #nudes #porn #pussy #black #females #shemale #fuckme #cu…📷 It’s ALWAYS the parts for me • • Omgggggg you should’ve seen the before! • • #lushiouslocsbyeuphoria #loc #locs… https://t.co/5j9CHnDXkzRT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @Protect_Wldlife: Another 100 Dogs and Cats neutered by the @MiriMission Borneon Team with a TNRM Project in collaboration with @SPCAKK.…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Labrador #puppies #stolen from #Galston #EastAyrshire overnight 9/10 April. 📞01560321903. #dogs #dogsoftwitter #stole…RT @phwandjes: Out today 😀 #happy #published #hopeithelps @Liz_ORiordan @fayjojo @elfyn_thomas @charlot_summers @Mummydoc1 @SteveDunnCEO @A…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @MischiefAndFun: You never lose Friends.
Real ones will always stay - no matter what
"and the fakes, you don't need anyways."
#Friends #To…RT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾
"#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…God🙏🏼please send me miracle💫so I can escape frm my #LIFE... #FeelingVeryDistressMy first my rotisserie chicken! 🍗 @brunosfinefoods 30 more minutes and #dinnertime 🍴 #love #movienight 🎥 #happy… https://t.co/O990oBZsWuRT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…RT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…Also pouring now is Pelican ginger-peach Saison from Fenceline Beer Lab of Huxley. This absolutely lovely Saison wo… https://t.co/ZG68SzKQwORT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @infoCrystalAura: These are my books which are  available on Amazon."
The New Earth Energy &amp; Inspirational Guidance Poems &amp; Quotes. 

#au…HIGHER LIFE QUOTES #10.

" In order to make any commodity valid, your first have to apply substance to it ... ""the r… https://t.co/j8OIncMf9qRT @dlhampton: Are you reacting, which increases cortisol, the stress hormone, or responding, which calms your brain and body? Reacting is…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 Friends, if you don't already do so, please check Sandra's profile regularly &amp; help share the pups @ PVAS #Texas , n…RT @gsrescueelite: 5yr old Skye has come so far with the help of the #Lincolnshire volunteers, a sweet girl who can live with older kids an…RT @lancepriebe: Fresh powder gone ski touring. Brought the hairy beast along. He surprisingly loves the downhill part of skiing. #skitouri…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Saffy find a home #Ballymena "
"#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @MaggieandKoko: We could get used to this vacation vibe. Settling in after a quick trip to the dog park. Hope everyone has a pawsome wee…RT @PokerProBV: I hate when this happens. I'm dealt K♣️/♦️ and raise pre-flop, not much, just a normal raise, and all the other players fol…RT @mapleveewesem: @ginachron Plz RT ⬆ "
"Poppies needs to find a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC to #FOSTER her STAT . Plz apply on links in…RT @PuppetTearsPod: Celebrating #NationalSiblingsDay to this classic pair of identical twins! Never forget that bears wear hats 😉 #PuppetTe…RT @_JesusDaily_: Renewal in Christ. Ephesians 4:17-24  ...that you should put away the #old #self of your former #way of #life, corrupted…Come check out all the awesome clothes you can get on my online business. Link in bio. #goodvibes #T-shirt #rainbow… https://t.co/keGYiJMGDrSometimes you don't need to hear their excuses or what they have to say for themselves because their actions alread… https://t.co/olmeszynJ0The black dahlia....I once lived in the same residency as her. "
.
.
.
"#hollywood #life #theblackdahlia #murder @ Ho… https://t.co/tNihRCzIzotoo much asshole-ism and hoe-ism. eaughhphff🙄#trending #music #rap #hiphop #quotes #livestream #business #life… https://t.co/uK4iLb0sRoRT @juliana_monty: Baby #lamb keeps asking to be petted just like #dogs &amp; #cats would. Live animal exports to be banned in #England &amp; #Wale…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Violet went #missing on 8/4/21 from #AtkinsonFarm #ChorleyNewRoad #Bolton #BL1 area. #OldeEnglishBulldog Chipped and…RT @sophia_sog: Most people underestimate the power of habit. However, it seems to me that habit is one of the strongest forces in the univ…My family ❤❤❤❤"
"#familylove #familyfirst #famiglia #familytime #family #dogslife #doggy #dogs #cat #catstagram… https://t.co/NM052sBA5gCat's Super Soft Bed#ilovemydog #dogs https://t.co/BYqJ98PFso https://t.co/QsHnAXgG1dRT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
"https://t.co/HL3xKBhh0eRT @OrthopodReg: Because of reasons, we are dropping The Dög off up North for a few months. "

I shall miss the Dög while she is away

I wil…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJ😍Husband's Favorite Leggings!💋 💯Perfect for yoga, running, fitness, and various leisure activities… https://t.co/h50t6uOtopRT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾"
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…RT @xDivineMariax: Don't mind me just posting old stuff until I find inspiration for new manips XD

"#sessrin #babies #sesshomaru #setsuna #…“I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sight again, ever.”… https://t.co/pmfZ9bN6FU#COVID19 Dr. Saddiq Arab, Rest In Peace. @WaterlooIowa #Pediatrics #iowa #Rocking #babies #love #MaskUpAmerica… https://t.co/1N6Rs81myyRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Obi find a home #LIVERPOOL "

"German Shep/Malamute aged 7 'playful teddy', looking for an experience…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @kforough1: What a doll baby!  PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN.RT @Cathy_B__: After Workout !!!"
"#fitnessgirl #PowerYourDreams #lifestyle #emotions #gostronger #silicone #1050cc #hotpants #pinkbimbo #imp…RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sight again, ever.”"
#d…RT @RichieRolex1: Sitting here putting a plan together for my next project. Go stream “X Shots” if you haven’t already. It’s available on a…RT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGlRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bella find a home #Manchester #DogsofTwittter🆘🐾🆘 Nothing is working right for wonderful POPPIES.😥 Are you a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC who can turn her luck… https://t.co/2iGJCKCH1gRT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sight again, ever.”"
"#d…Stand up, and fight, for what you believe. 🏋🏼‍♂️💯 @iamloolooboy "
.
".#beastbody #motivation #focus #gymlife… https://t.co/kCtZUtqtPrBelieve in your ability to #learn.  Trust in yourself to take the next step.  Celebrate your #success in doing both… https://t.co/e4jO3OlY3JRT @IMQuotes_Videos: Never say ""I Can't"" when it comes to something you want to accomplish."

#Motivation https://t.co/S8pYwzZFXGRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @bryantjones64: The moment you realize it’s a solo trip is the moment you start making  progress🗣💯
Everything Everyday🦍 @210ths 
@BCLion…RT @birdwriter7: #farmanimals #teacuppigs #pets #adoption #youngreaders #earlyreaders #picturebooks #emotions #friendship #antibullying #fa…RT @ZingBetaPrints: Courage🦋-Zip Accessory Pouch https://t.co/lqEUUkiiYP. Small bag offering encouragement +check free shipping ops via #et…RT @Berti_and_Ernie: The sun is shining and I have a wonderful time with my human. That's how a doglife should be!!
"#dogsarelove #dogs http…RT @IMQuotes_Videos: Never say ""I Can't"" when it comes to something you want to accomplish."

"#Motivation https://t.co/S8pYwzZFXGRT @TinyWriter: Positive quotes that will lift you up, motivate and inspire you https://t.co/mJE4GUHVNO #inspiration #motivation #positive…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 Please help KUTCHER leave SEAACA alive &amp; find his forever home. He's looking for a #DogLover in So #CA to #ADOPT or…RT @labisiffre: IN PLAIN SIGHT"
"White People Don't Belong In Jail”? So jails are for …?
https://t.co/Dr6eo72OUZ 

#life #liberty #pursuit #…Like it ? Tweet it, Shop It  Silk Devore Butterfly Jacket https://t.co/WtvcCgfJdV #fitgirls #fitness… https://t.co/odj1pMwKlbLike it ? Tweet it, Shop It  Silk Devore Butterfly Jacket https://t.co/WtvcCgfJdV #fitgirls #fitness… https://t.co/x2ICjXNIvwRT @The_Animal_Team: #Labrador #puppies #stolen from #Galston #EastAyrshire overnight 9/10 April. 📞01560321903. #dogs #dogsoftwitter #stole…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sight again, ever.”
#d…Like it ? Tweet it, Shop It  Pamela Cashmere Dress https://t.co/IMfVQLbXon #fitgirls #fitness #fitnessmotivation… https://t.co/l4jPTCqYYELike it ? Tweet it, Shop It  Pamela Cashmere Dress https://t.co/IMfVQLbXon #fitgirls #fitness #fitnessmotivation… https://t.co/ieFR6eKO9dHappy Hug Your Dog Day from AMC!! 🤗🐶💖

#HugYourDogDay #Dogs #VetMed https://t.co/M8kGXuXBK1RT @ArtistsFouad: Life 2021... Technology by Artist Zayed F Salamah #ArtistOnTwitter #ArtistsoftheCaribbean #artist #artistsontwitter #art…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 Please help KUTCHER leave SEAACA alive &amp; find his forever home. He's looking for a #DogLover in So #CA to #ADOPT or…#ps5 #ps5share #daysgone #playstation5 #gamer #gaming #photography #pictureoftheday #daysgonegame #photooftheday… https://t.co/OMKJuaaGTGI am sooo sorry my heart hurts for uRT @Alde_5590: #ps5 #ps5share #daysgone #playstation5 #gamer #gaming #photography #pictureoftheday #daysgonegame #photooftheday #beautiful…Today is #NationalPetDay but what happens when you can no longer have your own?😢 #Arcare aged care uses #puppy powe… https://t.co/ni1dQwxl7uRT @HopeForRonnie: Had to have my harness back on as I’m off for walkies . Don’t often get Alfie keeping me company on my bed ❤️#dogs #dogs…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #Hampshire https://t.co/fXGNBIp6jCRT @Ilovemy02803780: 😍😅
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/eNmEuZLVkRRT @bellepix_: Favorite cup 💙🐾🐕🐩🦮🐕‍🦺🐺🐶

#cup #mug #fivebelow #cute #favoritecup #dog #dogs #dogmug #dogcup #koolaid #fruitpunch https://t.c…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @harrypetsanis: Successful people get up everyday and repeat positive behaviors and actions. Unsuccessful people get up everyday and re…RT @Alfierescue1: Look at lovely happy Nessy! Please help to find her a home 💜💜RT @CherylUbera: When life seems upside down, sometimes you just need to change your perspective."

#life #bodypositivity #flip #perspective…RT @PetMunchies: #win #giveaway of #PetMunchies #natural #dog  #pet #treats  #dogtreats  #trainingtreats #training #dogs #competition #dogs…RT @lancepriebe: Fresh powder gone ski touring. Brought the hairy beast along. He surprisingly loves the downhill part of skiing. #skitouri…RT @txpts777: greyhounds and race horses....

torture....

"greedy evil...RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
"#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…Don’t focus on what is not working. Focus on what you do want.  Only you can take action to make it happen. #Action… https://t.co/A8B6UTAbO0RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Walking around the city... the sun is shining, the birds are singing, the flowers are blooming, and I see people ge… https://t.co/b9vRcs2HPCRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @_JesusDaily_: ...that the #God of our #Lord #Jesus #Christ, the #Father of #glory, may #give you a #spirit of #wisdom and #revelation r…Well, no shit. Read “EXTRAORDINARY” on @AmazonKindle "

https://t.co/AG9V2h29Xe

#extraordinary #book… https://t.co/AGSdBxW6Vdhttps://t.co/uG3MoMhIBj The Future is in Automation https://t.co/I2shB74j1I #motivation #entrepreneurquotes… https://t.co/YxhMIHJ1ODHappy Saturday auntie Shenny 👀 I got bacon! Love you! 🐶❤️😘🤗❤️😘🐶🤗😘❤️❤️❤️RT @_AnimalAdvocate: All #dogs are instinctively heroes🐶💖
Saving lives is just what they do🤗
Now it's our turn🙏

"Sign to #BanGreyhoundRacin…RT @KcVixs: Some people aren’t your friend, "
They’re just scared to be your enemy. 

#kcberquote #MotivationalQuotes #motivation #quoteRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Vjay find a home #SHROPSHIRE  
"#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sight again, ever.”"
"#d…RT @gsrescueelite: Madge is coming up to 2yrs old and this sweet girl does everything at 100mph and is always entertaining, she can live wi…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @gsrescueelite: Freddie is 6yrs old and this lad came to us via the pound, he is a happy and friendly lad but will need a child and pet…RT @The_Animal_Team: 💥NOT ANGUS💥#Found #StondonMassey #Brentwood #Essex 10/4/21. Now at Wallace Kennels.  📞01277 821032 with information on…Somepawdy pls save my bol!"
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📹: insta/brian_9229 https://t.co/7zZsRAtOJYRT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of m… https://t.co/IbCKHppRgORT @SchCouns4MTSS: I absolutely love this message/reframe for #wellnesswednesday. What are your happy triggers?

"Credit @mombrain.therapist…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…I am craving for more in life💫 #life #updateIf you can't figure out what happened to Amanda Bynes, pretend you're someone else ! #motivationSeries 8 episode 18 of friends: how have I only just noticed Ross’s dad is some random old guy. The editing is sooo… https://t.co/pYA8lueF1GRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @K9Loveofficial: Hug your doggos today because it’s #NationalHugYourDogDay !! 🤗🤗 "

#NationalSiblingsDay #dog #dogs #dogsofTwitter #catso…@BonnieBlueTK @whatcontrol0 My pleasure dear Lady! 🤗🌷 #FriendsRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #Hampshire https://t.co/fXGNBIp6jCDon’t forget your blanket! Am I right?!
.
.
📸 @flint_feather_photography
.
.
#treelinecollective #adventure… https://t.co/TA5AxXW6PKRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bruce find a home #SHROPSHIRE 
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter  #Saturdayi bet if people in goverment ate healthy and worked out and werent mundane people wed have tremendous progress and… https://t.co/h3xR2UhslORT @harrypetsanis: ""Successful people get up everyday and repeat positive behaviors and actions. Unsuccessful people get up everyday and re…https://t.co/GukGfCmTNg"

https://t.co/hsg7xxxukR
greenclimateworld/

https://t.co/MJlSZK9El7

#nature #green… https://t.co/BJUvG78ymvRT @BearBertthe: '... And today I follow his footsteps and stand where greatness once stood'

"#dogsoftwitter #dogs #Dog #smileforbert ♥ htt…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Tango find a home #Cambridgeshire #England 🍀RT @Rom_TAlan: #Resisters!  I just followed and will RT @SenatorHassan!!  Would you, please?"
🌊😷#TuesdayThoughts #LGBTQ🏳️‍🌈#NOH8 #Resist #FB…Happy Birthday 🎊🎁🎂🎈🎉 to my favorite song by my favorite band-released #OTD 32 yrs ago!
"The Cure - Lullaby (Official… https://t.co/SKqQEwRfvGRT @harrypetsanis: ""People spend more time avoiding their pain and running from their fears then they do healing and overcoming the dysfunc…😇❤️This is a new day, a new beginning. Listening to Daily Words of God will help us have a new understanding of God… https://t.co/yzQpkAwNSKRT @korayguerel: Friends..."
#photography #fotografie #art #photoart #friendship #animals #Human #dogs https://t.co/zPMw9BdctqRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Suzie and Murphy find a home together #Edinburgh  #Scotland #dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @chrisndigndoug: #TeamZay #itsallaboutthedogs Please retweet ❤️🐾National Hug Your Dog 🐶 Day!! 
"#nationaldogday #dogsofinstagram #dog #dogs #puppy #dogstagram #puppylove… https://t.co/mGigX0bFY6RT @shubhamkanwar97: Set Boundaries, Find Peace: A Guide to Reclaiming Yourself"
#selfimprovement #mindfulness #love #motivation #selfhelp #…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Barley find a home #KENT 
 
"JRT aged 1, can live with children aged 14+ as only pet, loves fuss, wi…RT @gsrescueelite: Obie is just a year old and arrived with little in the way of training and zero socialisation, he has been ok with some…RT @Dave59539060: Are you sure a portrait of Bruce is hanging in hollowed Hall? Should be and soon will be if you guys help out. Tzy https:…👉YouTube Vid🔥Link ⬇️"
➡️ @AnimalComp1
https://t.co/wyLK3lJPWN #dogs #DogsofTwittter #Bears
"#puppylove #instagramdown… https://t.co/jNdwtdRXijRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireTo make the most of personal growth, you need to become aware of the process. #lifetips #motivation… https://t.co/cZVLClbWncRT @aliciagrimes71: Never think you fail in life. But think positive alway because of yourself you are #1. What ever job you dream of you c…RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sight again, ever.”"
#d…Beachboys 
#vintage  #beefcake  #men #oldphotos #swimwear #foundphotos #happysnaps #friends #mates #lovers #pals https://t.co/OTghypxR06Somepawdy pls save my bol!
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📹: insta/brian_9229 https://t.co/Kkzi4qUTGFRT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of m… https://t.co/ggL1Fhn7C4Prem Rawat 

#PremRawat #wordsofpeace #wopg #Happiness #fulfilment #joy #humanity #fun #success #BlissfulLife… https://t.co/vc763MfMQXyou can get clear any day. Todays the day.#trending #music #rap #hiphop #quotes #livestream #business #life… https://t.co/W0k8m1FckaRT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Doris (Doll) find a home #ESSEX 
"Lovely Shih Tzu aged 2-5, could live with older teens or adults an…Tonight was needed ! "
#Friends❤️RT @OzDogLover: Today is #NationalPetDay but what happens when you can no longer have your own?😢 #Arcare aged care uses #puppy power to bri…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @MyTshirt4You: Pe Teacher Life Shirt

"This shirt is sure to be a hit, whether you’re buying it as a gift for somebody special or wearing…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #Hampshire https://t.co/fXGNBIp6jCRT @aliciagrimes71: Never think you fail in life. But think positive alway because of yourself you are #1. What ever job you dream of you c…RT @The_Animal_Team: 🆘MISSING DINNINGTON NEWCASTLE NE13# Went #missing in fields in #Dinnington 7/4/21. https://t.co/rw6XkNMXF6 #dogs #dogs…Less than 20 hours left to help this sweet young (approx 8 months in age) #Dog: "
Canned food for Bouboule: 
Poor Bo… https://t.co/FbSH8ZONZl@hitRECordJoe Don Jon  is my love Joe Gordon Mum and dad are dead I sit alone and watch don't need to embarrass Joe… https://t.co/dyvKPzCoA7RT @dogfans4: Weekend mood
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📸: insta/pepperminidachshund https://t.co/tWzCEpeDS2RT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…RT @bunsenbernerbmd: So today my assistant will be taking over CHEM 205.  Please be nice to her.
#Science #Dogs #Adorable https://t.co/wqdN…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

"#…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sight again, ever.”"
#d…RT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7She is so perfect in every way!!! How can i help?  Do pledges help promote a foster?RT @BettyBrigade: 7 ways to naturally de-stress at home

#inspiration #motivation https://t.co/lVbKP4ErxART @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…RT @na_delce: Who is horny ? DM 🍆 👅
#horny #cumshot #erection #fuck #girl #gay #milf #nudes #porn #pussy #black #females #shemale #fuckme #…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Lexi find a home #KENT #UK 

"Boxer Cross aged 3, looking for a caring adult home, to build her conf…RT @Archie_AlfieCav: Morning, thank you for all your love &amp;  prayers yesterday ❤️ Alfie is continuing to get plenty of sleep (Mum is not 🥰)…You don't have to be great to start but you need to start to be great! "

"Get started towards your greatness today!… https://t.co/qoTTxIlKJkRT @LollyDaskal: Patience is the realization that the quality of your life is much more significant than the quantity of the things you fil…See video of sweet Truk on GFM. He needs ear tumors removed ASAP. These amazing people  exhausted their finances to… https://t.co/4DnWmIZhybRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗"
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…Futures looking bright over the #Merrimack #NaturePhotography #life #lifestyle #appreciation #Rain #rainbow https://t.co/QaJvpBD4uFUnderstanding the Differences Between Rheumatoid Arthritis and Osteoarthritis
https://t.co/i0gGI3fhII 
"#tagfire… https://t.co/FRHQVIxISLRT @MikeMikwd: This one will amaze -  open pic - the awesome power of nature brought the Devil's pulpit #ScotlandisNow #StormHour #photogra…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”"
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…Jericho Alley Kindle Edition
by Lisa Colodny  (Author) 
https://t.co/86ArHzgWVl 
"#children's, #pets, #adventure,… https://t.co/9Bicb9bbr9I'm watching  #WrestleMania both nights #love #happy #emotional #joy @WWE  ❤️We ❤️ spending our Sundays with you! Share your Sunday with people you love too. Don't know how to invite someone?… https://t.co/bRwdRPwVdXRT @cwebimpressions: #coloradoseo #coloradowebimpressions #chrisheidlebaugh #business #life #quotes"

Chris Heidlebaugh
Colorado Web Impress…Change is up to you. #inspiration #change #motivation #positive #quotes https://t.co/iIXuwYJoFwMEDITATION TECHNIQUES!
Meditation describes a state where your body and mind are consciously kicked back and concen… https://t.co/S1dlCUs4pG🌟 For Business Legal Services 💥📞 Call or text (205) 222-9815 💪🏾 Our team is here to serve you!!! 

#getricenow… https://t.co/24uDhx9XuaPrem Rawat 

#PremRawat #wopg #inspired #peaceiswithinyou #KnowThyself #wordsofpeace #inspirational #fulfilment… https://t.co/Y5bHmHxbhVInner contentment is... #Peace #gedeprama #bali #beauty #happy #healthy #holy #innerharmony #JoyTrain

Photo courte… https://t.co/YzKAjyxVbaRT @Berti_and_Ernie: The sun is shining and I have a wonderful time with my human. That's how a doglife should be!!
"#dogsarelove #dogs http…#FOURPAWS care for #stray animals all over the world with mobile clinics, #CVNR, education, mass vaccination and… https://t.co/bo5Ki2MneSHow beautiful on the mountains are the feet of those who bring good news, who proclaim peace, who bring good tiding… https://t.co/ERqMjC6nQ6“The people who get on in this world are the people who get up and look for the circumstances they want...” Are you… https://t.co/EOfOKK1N8zWant to learn to trade? Start paper trading to practice! "
.
"#money #business #investing #finance #motivation… https://t.co/MrzqJTlmgLRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter ht…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 2 yo YING in #CorpusChristi #Texas is in dire need of a #DogLover to offer to #FOSTER him TODAY! Plz RT, &amp; #PLEDGE f…Ask yourself if what you are doing today is getting you closer to where you want to be tomorrow."
Thinking about sta… https://t.co/a8f9UaqMVNExperience the Dunlap Difference at Dunlap Photography!
.
.
.
#dunlapphoto #classof2021 #senior #seniorpics… https://t.co/4tzMijk0HJSo much cuteness for a #Caturday ... I just can’t with these two...  🥺😍Must Watch!  #CatsOfTwitter #dogsoftwitter… https://t.co/No4HRW21JFRecognize the little miracles and blessings that make every day better. #ManulifeWeekends #ManulifeEverydaybetter… https://t.co/gKvsOVJJMBBe Happy &amp; Smile :) 

Website: https://t.co/P2EJzzYP9W
Phone: 1300 760 045

#sunday #sundayfeels #hope #love… https://t.co/1Z6Iar9wUsRT @pattykogutek: Change is up to you. #inspiration #change #motivation #positive #quotes https://t.co/iIXuwYJoFwRT @cwebimpressions: #coloradoseo #coloradowebimpressions #chrisheidlebaugh #business #life #quotes

Chris Heidlebaugh
Colorado Web Impress…Sock thief

#dog #doggy #dogslife #dogsofinstagram #dogs_of_instagram #cockapoo #cockapoosofinstagram #cockapoolife… https://t.co/htfuQaCpFXAre you hosting barbecues and #parties this #spring? Have an amazing set up outside so you can #cook and hang with… https://t.co/2rmO9HzLmwRT @10_Ilovedogs: RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sigh…The weekend dog is a happy dog...
.
.
.
.
#qtdog #staurday #saturdayvibes #weekend #happydog #funnydog #dogcuddles… https://t.co/UluvQ8qgvURT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

"#…Think Fun T Shirts, Think Groovi 😍"
See the range at https://t.co/WCBUzZQuXn

#groovi #personalised #custom #candles… https://t.co/INnN1MnUEhPrem Rawat 

"#PremRawat #timelesstoday #peaceispossible #peacemakers #wordsofpeace #inspirational #inspired… https://t.co/OhwCAnI5mGRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 2 yo YING in #CorpusChristi #Texas is in dire need of a #DogLover to offer to #FOSTER him TODAY! Plz RT, &amp; #PLEDGE f…Daily reminder that all of your emotions are valid, both the positive ones and the negative ones! "
"Credit:… https://t.co/74y66VkIUqIn order to succeed, your desire for success should be greater than your fear of failure. - Bill Cosby"

"#quotes #positivewords #motivationPause, but don't quit! Every progress counts! #success #discipline #dphomebuyers #denmarkproperties… https://t.co/8DYCnvNyt5RT @Berti_and_Ernie: The sun is shining and I have a wonderful time with my human. That's how a doglife should be!!"
#dogsarelove #dogs http…RT @na_delce: Who is horny ? 🍆 👅👌
"#horny #cumshot #erection #fuck #girl #gay #milf #nudes #porn #pussy #black #females #shemale #fuckme #cu…If you take your #dream seriously, it will pay you with a fortune for #life.RT @Berti_and_Ernie: The sun is shining and I have a wonderful time with my human. That's how a doglife should be!!"
"#dogsarelove #dogs http…🐶🐱 Talk to a live veterinarian 24/7/365 👉 https://t.co/wvxqxEBXKI #veterinarian #dogs #cats #vet #veterinary… https://t.co/67fDuIp03kThank you, Cindy! Sending love, tea, and flowers back. 💖☕ 💐💖 Hope your life is ""springing"" with the splendor spring… https://t.co/LlQI0Dc6VOHow To Secure #Dog In Car With A Leash? 3 Actionable Tips https://t.co/fysUMEndtt #learnaboutpet #pet #pets #dogs #cats #animalsPomeranian Husky Mix : 35 Facts About Pomsky #Dog Breed https://t.co/GBemn0KqTo #learnaboutpet #pet #pets #dogs #cats #animalsCan #Dogs Eat Rice? https://t.co/u1JHkWHgEf #learnaboutpet #pet #pets #dog #cats #animalsRT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…Do Huskies Shed A Lot? 3 Easy Ways To Stop Husky Shedding https://t.co/qh5Xa5KYDp #learnaboutpet #pet #pets #dogs #dog #cats #animalsCan I pet dat dawg? 🐶🐾💕🥰"
.
.
.
"#dogs #dogsofinstagram #puppiesofinstagram #muttsofinstagram #rescuesofinstagram… https://t.co/q0DSuMXzr3how Do #Dogs Get Kennel Cough? 4 Severe Symptoms https://t.co/ZqYAvUzsO9 #learnaboutpet #pet #pets #dog #cats #animalsRT @LindaGrass0: Everyday is a new opportunity to become a better version of yourself, don't waste it."
"{Infographic} @antgrasso via @LindaG…RT @Aslanthe4eared1: So much cuteness for a #Caturday ... I just can’t with these two...  🥺😍Must Watch!  #CatsOfTwitter #dogsoftwitter #dog…#Petlove #pets Puppy Love #dog #aww #doggo via https://t.co/l2j38oS4AB #animal #puppy #doggy #dogsRT @herminsche308: If you meet your doubts in the dark, gloomy days, don't push them away. The way out of doubts is to go with them, becaus…RT @ScarlettBeagle: ""Sound up everyone!"" woofs rescued ex-laboratory @ScarlettBeagle, ""I had the most amazing time in the woods today, spel…If you want to LIVE LONGER &amp; HEALTHIER!  Stress is harmful to your Health. This Kindle eBook by E. B. Warren will h… https://t.co/lcZ1na6EZyRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @gsrescueelite: Madge is coming up to 2yrs old and this sweet girl does everything at 100mph and is always entertaining, she can live wi…Which one of these homeowners did a better job remodeling their kitchen, 1 or 2?"

562-417-2751
"Your Local Realtor… https://t.co/weSNqFXHbJRT @shutdownBV: “I researched #GreyhoundRacing in depth, the more I learnt the more distressing it became.” Moe has been an ardent activist…RT @PsyberGuide: Daily reminder that all of your emotions are valid, both the positive ones and the negative ones! "
Credit: @saddie_baddies…RT @ddenyle1: 🔥Booty Motivation..🔥.                          #DahliaDenyle #motivation #Booty_Licious #WAP #PostMe https://t.co/l4v3ueI9Bd⁠⁠The perfect Spring picnic!⁠
⁠
Make your weekend extra special by taking some time to bond with your loved ones. ⁠… https://t.co/efWQkN0Tu1Grain-Free Hip &amp; Joint Support Supplement for your dog!

"**Recommended for support of joints, bones and cartilage**… https://t.co/e6iYYwEsXvLong term wealth are assets that's going to bring money into your account! These make you money!"
@addictforsuccess… https://t.co/zaEuZ3nCk1Visit us at https://t.co/XYnwyAgJDy for more info! 🚀🚀🚀
"#Ethereum #GOP #GooSwap #YIELDApp #YieldFarming #bounty… https://t.co/AUiWqKXAjYRT @cmelitawebbpoem: ""You are priceless &amp; sometimes things happen that can block the beautiful vision of your blessed life. You must trust…OMG! He just stopped and stared! 😂😂 That's awesome.😍😍"
https://t.co/cXBezrFyLl
" #weekendvibes #leggings #motivation… https://t.co/TGv8PZnTTgRT @The_Animal_Team: Puppy #stolen from #Bisley #Surrey area, after two men went to the owner's home. Chipped. I am really having to bite m…RT @aliciagrimes71: Never think you fail in life. But think positive alway because of yourself you are #1. What ever job you dream of you c…Going live in the VIP Club in 30 minutes (7:30pm EST) to talk about MONEY &amp; much more! 💰 "

🔥 Come hang out ➡️… https://t.co/dNgvJLkoEPBadminton Backyard Fun- Ages 6 and under. 

Click the link 👉 https://t.co/iJUuh2hQrR

"#summerfun #summergames… https://t.co/WjI50IgkesRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”"
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…Show us your smile if you had fun at daycare this week! 😛🐶
.
.
.
#TheRanchPetCare #barknride #SturgeonCounty… https://t.co/ox2tniCt0fRT @laura_corbeth: This is a great chart to help self-regulate.

How to stay in the “Window of Tolerance” and control trauma-related respon…#GiveawayHop is live! #Enter to #win this #giveaway thanks to @paterfamilius1 and @CraftyZoo today!… https://t.co/J1HowA4L3LRT @kforough1: She is so perfect in every way!!! How can i help?  Do pledges help promote a foster? https://t.co/FkpVy9t5uoPrem Rawat 

#PremRawat #timelesstoday #peaceispossible #peacemakers #wordsofpeace #inspirational #inspired… https://t.co/tldvam1O0KRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
"If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…Simple things that make your day better!! @Starbucks His reward for a nice long walk. #dogs #treats https://t.co/Vytq6eQHUBRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
"#dogs #dogsoftwitterhttps://t.co/zL0mFd9gTz domain for sale - open for offers via https://t.co/BKB0p8tUH7 domain brokers. #life… https://t.co/LJXroln41g📷 I’ll say it once I’ll say it twice • • •lushiouslocsbyeuphoria #loc #locs #locstyles #dreads #locjourney… https://t.co/oQxw0CLhNIRT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sight again, ever.”"
"#d…RT @RadTheMaligator: I don't do politics! I'm a dog, it's beneath me 🐶👅👅👅🐾❤🐾😁"

#BelgianMalinois #DogsofTwittter #dogs #Maligator🐊 

Wanna P…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @80sThen80sNow: When Your World Looks Kinda Weird and You Wish That You Weren’t There
🎼🎼🎼🎼🎼🎼🎼🎼🎼🎼🎼🎼🎼
"Just Close Your Eyes and Make Believ…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 Nothing is working right for wonderful POPPIES.😥 Are you a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC who can turn her luck arou…RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sight again, ever.”"
#d…We need much less than we think we need. Maya Angelou https://t.co/hJVVWBwDmH #life #inspiration #natureRT @laura_corbeth: Identify. Accept. And realize emotions are impermanent. 
"#emotions #breathe #mindfulness #MentalHealth https://t.co/HyVw…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamSpot the Sammy ❤️😂 #bassethound #dogsoftwitter #nap #dogs https://t.co/dkn8GEiNI9RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sight again, ever.”"
#d…RT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…Prem Rawat 

#PremRawat #timelesstoday #peaceispossible #peacemakers #wordsofpeace #inspirational #inspired… https://t.co/n1AmdYx2I4RT @carlaacarlson: Don’t focus on what is not working. Focus on what you do want.  Only you can take action to make it happen. #Action #Mot…Hi Jeddah massage and #Happy ending  here available call or wattsapp 0583027363 thanks 🥰RT @carlaacarlson: Believe in your ability to #learn.  Trust in yourself to take the next step.  Celebrate your #success in doing both.  Th…#Life and #Teaching #Yoga from the #Himalayas ..also #Hindu printed 1924. #TodayinHistory.
 Thats… https://t.co/sf6iImjOhZWe are doing community night right now we are playing some jack box and chatting come hangout.

What games do you l… https://t.co/B1y4W4uMwLRT @BalinADurrMD: Name 1 or 2 things about you and your presence on the planet that brightens #Life and others experience of Life.

I'll go…RT @PriyaScifi: 🙏🙏🙏 Please share all over India.#CountyDurham
"Somebody take Teddy - just look at that face#Sometimes you need to let things go 🖤🎶 #motivation #sundayvibes #Sunday #support #SundayThoughts 💙 https://t.co/luS8DHUMLdRT @AcousticWisdom: Come jump start your week with a little TwitterSpaces Sunday Brunch hosted by @iAmNawlinz, @InspiredByWayne, @IamDKHamm…""Going back to a simpler life is not a step backwards""~ Yvon Chouinard ~ #Life https://t.co/Bdh7JUI3Afwhen your donut can’t be chewed "

#donuts #itaintforeatin #dogs #writerspets #cavalierkingcharlesspaniel #ckcs https://t.co/6e238XogQoRT @AddictForSucce1: Long term wealth are assets that's going to bring money into your account! These make you money!
@addictforsuccess

"#m…RT @herminsche308: If you meet your doubts in the dark, gloomy days, don't push them away. The way out of doubts is to go with them, becaus…RT @KarenFi51820768: Please help @FusiologyP to get this to a TV screen near you. Help them reach the general public who don’t access Faceb…TPRF (The Prem Rawat Foundation)"

https://t.co/ELDGyiypzE

"#PremRawat #TPRF #PeaceEducationProject #FoodForPeople… https://t.co/byBoVIDGPvRT @The_Animal_Team: Puppy #stolen from #Bisley #Surrey area, after two men went to the owner's home. Chipped. I am really having to bite m…RT @Snishaa2: Good Night to All My ℒℴѴℯly"
Friends👫
"Thank You All For Your ℒฺℴฺνℯฺ, Likes,"
"Rtt, Following &amp; Supporrt This Week🌸"
"ℒℴѵℯ You All…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @mykiedydss: Going live in the VIP Club in 30 minutes (7:30pm EST) to talk about MONEY &amp; much more! 💰 "

"🔥 Come hang out ➡️ https://t.co/…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…RT @AngelSiblani: Sometimes you need to let things go 🖤🎶 #motivation #sundayvibes #Sunday #support #SundayThoughts 💙 https://t.co/luS8DHUMLdRT @LifeWithJohn: ""Going back to a simpler life is not a step backwards""~ Yvon Chouinard ~ #Life https://t.co/Bdh7JUI3AfSlideshow: "
Long-Living Dog Breeds 
https://t.co/2F8A0pOoJ9 
#Dogs
.Pretty Girl. Best adoption ever.  Get out there and adore and adopt.RT @Snishaa2: Good Night to All My ℒℴѴℯly
Friends👫
After Every Beautiful Day Comes a
"Beautiful Night, Hope You’ve All"
"Enjoyed This One,Take…RT @dogfans4: That #360 tail spin 🤣🐶"
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
"📹: insta/minidoodlebentley https://t.co/dVaZnhhLSsRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @AsmaBadamian: Having good friends are in blessings of Allah.. ❤️"
"#FriendsRT @cgbosslady1: Happy Saturday! It’s a beautiful sunny day!  M&amp;D and I are back from our first walk and I have found my first napping plac…""The starting point of all achievement is desire."" #quote #quotes #inspiration #motivation #true #quoteofthedayRT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! "

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @ScarlettBeagle: ""Can you see my laboratory tattoo number? Thank you @MpHendrick for signing #EDM250, for a Govt mandated hearing to sto…😆😆How funny your husband's reaction while you wearing these, you should have these. "
https://t.co/Wk9av5t8Ve… https://t.co/Ev05T0pUFbOnly time you should be friends with a bitch is when she is getting you more bitches
#friends 
#red… https://t.co/1d19OJivOyBased in this video I drew a T-Rex dog! Woof woof!

#Art #Sketchpage #Dinosaurs #TRex #dogs #Mashup #creaturedesign… https://t.co/8ZmwbrEdvdA lots of them around lately. #life https://t.co/FrtwDJ3xDnHow to Stop Being a Victim and #Love #Life Again
You know victims. We are the whiners who always seem to have some… https://t.co/Ur9raITeGHRT @DriverClassics: DriverClassics https://t.co/lZiNHo1dwA
" #amreading #book #kindlebook #MotivationalQuote #WritingCommunity #writing #ins…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 Nothing is working right for wonderful POPPIES.😥 Are you a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC who can turn her luck arou…There is no failure except in giving up. There is no negative outcome. You either win or you learn. There is no imp… https://t.co/9EQcqtBQ3bRT @BrainyQuote: Cherish all your happy moments; they make a fine cushion for old age. - Booth Tarkington https://t.co/kWVyN50jfr #brainyqu…RT @herminsche308: If you meet your doubts in the dark, gloomy days, don't push them away. The way out of doubts is to go with them, becaus…RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗"
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

"#…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @dobetterwithdan: New from The Existential Stoic Podcast!"
Episode 29 - The Paradoxes of Life
Life is full of Paradoxes! One of our best…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…[Image] #motivation https://t.co/n7lyF9E74eRT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…theres nothing like a business that seems todo all correctly , better and more..zero complaints and everyones non p… https://t.co/Iy9vd8dRb2RT @johnwinters14: @TaniaHopkins3 Hey #NYCACC why are all of Sweet Poppy's applications being denied? "
"Please explain and don't #kill Poppy…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @CrossRealms: Good afternoon!😅"

Like❤ Comment💬 &amp; Share✉ to Support us!

#cybersecurity #hacking #security #network #cyberattack #malware…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…Fan Fun Dream Role for Damian Lewis Series Continues! 
008 - The Spy Who Replaces 007: Here's Karen's Dream Role fo… https://t.co/RjwDo2uJEbRT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

"#…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @TreelineCollec1: Don’t forget your blanket! Am I right?!
.
.
📸 @flint_feather_photography
.
.
#treelinecollective #adventure #lifestyle…DriverClassics https://t.co/lZiNHoiOo8
" #amreading #book #kindlebook #MotivationalQuote #WritingCommunity #writing… https://t.co/4dk5rZfNQEStep into your greatness! #successquote #motivation https://t.co/JKTQzdlAOJ https://t.co/a2rp7DfLJART @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @davidbombal: I don't stop when I'm tired, I stop when I'm done."

#DailyMotivation #inspiration #motivation #bestadvice #lifelessons #ch…RT @lgibson12397: well that’s me

"many thanks for making today special-whilst blue sky and #sunshine brought #JOY your #HappyBirthday wishe…In grace and in all things, the only thing that does not grow old. A kind-hearted man is simple."
.
.
.
#smile… https://t.co/2xqPdFt1RfRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 Nothing is working right for wonderful POPPIES.😥 Are you a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC who can turn her luck arou…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…DriverClassics https://t.co/lZiNHo1dwA
" #amreading #book #kindlebook #MotivationalQuote #WritingCommunity #writing… https://t.co/4S3SnKc7fORT @ScarlettBeagle: ""Sound up everyone!"" woofs rescued ex-laboratory @ScarlettBeagle, ""I had the most amazing time in the woods today, spel…RT @blakandblack: Juxtaposition occurs when two things are placed side by side for comparison, often to highlight the contrast between the…Check out VERAMEDIA's video! #TikTok https://t.co/40u4Y7b2gR #travel #adventure #explore #lifeJust Here To Inspire Unisex V-Neck Tee https://t.co/35QmXIZDih #inspiration #motivation #create https://t.co/f4VRQu6h4SRT @funnydo25814387: So cute ❤️"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/tqI1MwMx44I agree with this! Kindness begets kindness. D*uchebaggery begets , well...d*uchebaggery. "
#life 
#kindness… https://t.co/7ifPFRoTz1RT @heatherrose1814: G’morning Friends/ Beautiful Souls!🌹☕️🥐😁__❤️ Happy Saturday and #NationalCinnamonCrescentDay! 🥐 Have a super Saturday..…Onward and upward! 
.
.
.
#bigsky #positive #love #happy #motivation #positivevibes #positivity #life #loveyourself… https://t.co/D38Z1AwhhpRT @MelodiePariseau: Happy #Saturday from Daisy friends! Have a great day everyone ☀️🐾 @dogcelebration #weekendmood #dogs #dogsoftwitter #s…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamCheck out VERAMEDIA's video! #TikTok https://t.co/2Dr4SNz3oL #travel #adventure #explore #lifeYou Tell Stories The Way A Cartographer Draws a Map: writing as navigation - via @pensignal #Life #Writing #Self… https://t.co/W4jpxvPmYzRT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…DriverClassics https://t.co/lZiNHo1dwA
 #amreading #book #kindlebook #MotivationalQuote #WritingCommunity #writing… https://t.co/uKGQbRN2jthttps://t.co/foWPCj8004 Viridian Therapeutics Inc The algorithm is forecasting the value of this company has a very… https://t.co/j6xcAj4aNwRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 Please help KUTCHER leave SEAACA alive &amp; find his forever home. He's looking for a #DogLover in So #CA to #ADOPT or…Check out VERAMEDIA's video! #TikTok https://t.co/h3Iq6epKpi #travel #adventure #explore #lifeRT @TheTwelveTails: ⚕🆘️ Please Help! Truk urgently needs an unexpected second surgery ASAP &amp; we must raise approx. $2000. He's developed 2…RT @carlaacarlson: Don’t focus on what is not working. Focus on what you do want.  Only you can take action to make it happen. #Action #Mot…RT @DriverClassics: DriverClassics https://t.co/lZiNHo1dwA
 #amreading #book #kindlebook #MotivationalQuote #WritingCommunity #writing #ins…RT @mykiedydss: Going live in the VIP Club in 30 minutes (7:30pm EST) to talk about MONEY &amp; much more! 💰 

🔥 Come hang out ➡️ https://t.co/…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…Focus: Meditation and Mindfulness For ADHD ($29.99 to FREE) #life #selfhelp #practice #mindfulness #happy… https://t.co/bpQXClWlKwRT @DanaGarrison: Remember that the reason you're doing this is to make your life better.
#quote #Business #Entrepreneur #Inspiration #Moti…RT @MaraAmberly: You're Never Too Old to Follow Your Dreams
#quotes #inspirational #dreams #dreaming #motivational #motivation https://t.co…Be your own motivation. It’s the best feeling ever.

✨https://t.co/68zs36nthh✨

"#selfmotivated #motivation… https://t.co/Lv4PDUnLT1RT @Burkeeboy: Coffee time with @Burkeegirl and treats for the pups.  PS:  Marley wishes he was taller.  #SaturdayMotivation #dogs #dogsoft…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 2 yo YING in #CorpusChristi #Texas is in dire need of a #DogLover to offer to #FOSTER him TODAY! Plz RT, &amp; #PLEDGE f…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 2 yo YING in #CorpusChristi #Texas is in dire need of a #DogLover to offer to #FOSTER him TODAY! Plz RT, &amp; #PLEDGE f…Newborn Princess Tutu Bodysuits https://t.co/xUi8xbf2Hc #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion #kids… https://t.co/g7KnWlxxOPRT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 Nothing is working right for wonderful POPPIES.😥 Are you a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC who can turn her luck arou…I don't kno what the word ""Quit"" means.  The funny part about quitting is that it's the easy way out and once u do… https://t.co/DCcmnJyY1RHappy weekend my friend.   🙂🙂💕🐾🐾RT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…#friends #family #CTO #CFO #Entrepreneur #TechNews #investors #Coinbase Joins #DeFi Alliance Ahead of Public Listin… https://t.co/KUKxPh6bFeI need funny and horny friends I can talk to 24/7 :))"
#Friends #Mutuals #Moots #Funny #Horny #dm #dmme #nsfwRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 Please help KUTCHER leave SEAACA alive &amp; find his forever home. He's looking for a #DogLover in So #CA to #ADOPT or…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @xDivineMariax: Don't mind me just posting old stuff until I find inspiration for new manips XD"

#sessrin #babies #sesshomaru #setsuna #…Success is the product of daily habits—not once-in-a-lifetime transformations.

"#DailyMotivation #inspiration… https://t.co/iWkd8gnc9cRT @MagdalenaMeisel: ❤️Dear Friends, I am sending you this timeless beautiful song and wish you all a romantic evening❤️"
🎧I Will Always Lov…RT @gsrescueelite: Max is 5yrs old and this lad needs a home as his humans are emigrating. He is a very bright and keen lad who can live wi…Put the past behind. Move forward one inspired step at a time.

via @Inspireu2Action 

"#ThinkBIGSundayWithMarsha… https://t.co/lYTR2l6ZlxThat sweet, sweet sound of whipped cream.. #dogs https://t.co/to1Cwyki8JRT @WilfandErnie: Dad thinks we've got enough #stuffedfrens. Pfft 😤 good job Mums in charge 😂😂 #dogsoftwitter #dogs #SaturdayMotivation # h…RT @10_Ilovedogs: RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sigh…RT @funnydo25814387: 😘🥰"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/N6WgMxijRTSummer Cute Flower Jumpsuits https://t.co/EXmJh5AKbY #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion #kids… https://t.co/KEgP4O0adTRT @eldiablo0786: Put the past behind. Move forward one inspired step at a time.

via @Inspireu2Action 

#ThinkBIGSundayWithMarsha 
"#Inspir…RT @birdwriter7: #farmanimals #teacuppigs #pets #adoption #youngreaders #earlyreaders #picturebooks #emotions #friendship #antibullying #fa…RT @Julezfit1: Since this disappeared. Here the tweet for YALL. #happy Monday.  #sweaty #musty #balls #dick #hairy #daddy #black #ass #hole…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @harrypetsanis: ""People spend more time avoiding their pain and running from their fears then they do healing and overcoming the dysfunc…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage"
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

"#…RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sight again, ever.”"
"#d…RT @Berti_and_Ernie: Where ever we go, there will be a dog willing to follow us unswervingly! #dog #friends https://t.co/f30s9iOL3vRT @10_Ilovedogs: RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sigh…RT @davidbombal: Success is the product of daily habits—not once-in-a-lifetime transformations."

"#DailyMotivation #inspiration #motivation…RT @MagdalenaMeisel: ❤️Dear Friends, I am sending you this timeless beautiful song and wish you all a romantic evening❤️"
🎧I Will Always Lov…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…RT Going live in the VIP Club in 30 minutes (7:30pm EST) to talk about MONEY &amp;amp; much more! 💰 

"🔥 Come hang out… https://t.co/17xTJ9dNuERT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @harrypetsanis: ""Successful people get up everyday and repeat positive behaviors and actions. Unsuccessful people get up everyday and re…How To Make Your Dog Tune in To Your Commands?  #pets #dogs  https://t.co/sfkoG6eYJZImmediate gratification. "

The ultimate gratification. 

I don’t believe there’s a scenario where they are one in t… https://t.co/jQMvBfXJmkRT @The_Animal_Team: 🆘MISSING DINNINGTON NEWCASTLE NE13# Went #missing in fields in #Dinnington 7/4/21. https://t.co/rw6XkNMXF6 #dogs #dogs…RT @iinpod: Immediate gratification. 

The ultimate gratification. 

I don’t believe there’s a scenario where they are one in the same. 

U…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @howzmeluck: Awesome is all I can say...apart from a momentary flash back from the early 90’s there for a sec before a quick recovery! J…""Easily Distracted By Dogs and Coffee"" Merch : https://t.co/kOmYG9m87y"
#love #caffeinate #coffee #coffeetime… https://t.co/4S77p1eSiSBaby Girl Summer Rompers#cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion #kids #babyshower #Babygirls #babyboys… https://t.co/ikGOVqZvDbRT @pitbull: Life is a reflection of what we allow ourselves to see. #Reflection #Motivation https://t.co/eCpxeJhxnjRT @danau717: We need Hero’s🙌🙌🙌🙏💔😢🆘🆘🆘🆘🆘🆘🆘🆘🐶#DechartGames  #AprilDechart art prompts day 6 - Laughter~ 
"It was a crazy summer with my friends. I hope we can be… https://t.co/fXUSQP7dFhRT @daisy_pom: Friends, I got the most gorgeous bandana in the mail from my bichon pal, Poppy in Scotland! I love it! And it’s from our fri…RT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾"
"#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…#Life Is #All..call Life whatever #Name that Cannot change What man Cannot even #See? Nevermind the #Unknown.RT @AKCHercules: Please help if you can, we did! ❤️ @nuggetsdrooling @RidleyHowell @casie190 @abby_bulldog @itsSirGustafson @Catsemail @elv…RT @DudeJoking: Holy Barks! Now you can turn Max into a noble Pope with a cute #costume like this. "

Those who are blessed with the touch o…RT @BrokenandHere: It's your journey. Everyone can support you but it's still on you to heal. 

#mentalhealth  #MentalHealthMatters 
#Menta…RT @iinpod: Immediate gratification. 

The ultimate gratification. 

I don’t believe there’s a scenario where they are one in the same. 

U…GOOD NEWS: @SyracusePolice reunite missing dog with Syracuse woman | @CNYCentral #dogs #goodnews #Syracuse

Aisis… https://t.co/aVNnjZ2P5TRT @calmmminds: Striking Red nature calm❤️🌹❤️🌹❤️
"#MentalHealthMatters #MentalHealthAwareness #Motivation #Anxiety #depression #calm https:/…RT @maxbhill: Life castes  it's shadows but in the light there is always beauty #Hope #Happy #Philip #gardening #photography #Believe https…Ivory Lace Flower Girl/Communion Dresses https://t.co/Dv71QY5tt7 #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion… https://t.co/BrSQsIvQJlRT @fourpawsAU: #FOURPAWS care for #stray animals all over the world with mobile clinics, #CVNR, education, mass vaccination and  #spayandn…RT @maxbhill: When the sun glows in the Tulip buds, a smile is not far away #Hope #Smile #Happy #photography #Gardening #photooftheday http…RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sight again, ever.”"
#d…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

"#…RT @LindaGrass0: Everyday is a new opportunity to become a better version of yourself, don't waste it."
{Infographic} @antgrasso via @LindaG…#DechartGames  #AprilDechart art prompts day 6 - Laughter~ 
It was a crazy summer with my friends. I hope we can be… https://t.co/TLK6YdX5o6Between #rain showers we got out for a #dog walk and this #muskrat skeedaddled back into the #wetland #dogs #doggo https://t.co/h9HBJPv63ZMOTIVATION: GROWTH
"#motivationaltweet #motivation #growth #individuality #selflove #HABESHAinc https://t.co/o9Tk4MYbLeShelter Saturday Pet of the week!!! This beautiful girl is so calm and well behaved!! Visit Chessa today at Sacrame… https://t.co/EPPadngszdRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @CenterOsoul: ""Allah the one true God is the Creator of life, death, and life after death (Last Day). "

Find more about Islam: 
"https://…RT @CMilianPt: ""Parade is bout to commence ! @beignetbox 12266 Ventura Blvd"" "

"#instafamous#instadaily#igers#filters#hair#photo#instafollow…Sparkling Cake Princess Dress https://t.co/IP3V0ubf5d #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion #kids… https://t.co/Rcptixe4bhRT @gsrescueelite: Jaxon is 14mths old and he arrived with zero training, boundaries and socialisation, he has made excellent progress with…I make changes"
"#affirmations #motivationJoseph Gordon Levitt got very sandy at the park today!! @hitRECordJoe @oscarnut14 #dogsoftwitter #dogs #puppies… https://t.co/5gciVyfmjPRT @gsrescueelite: Chase is 7yrs old and the #Notts kennels say this lad is a pleasure to walk and be around, he can live with older kids b…RT @na_delce: Good morning 🤤 "
"#horny #cumshot #erection #fuck #girl #gay #milf #nudes #porn #pussy #black #females #shemale #fuckme #cummmi…Mother’s Day Gift! #birthday #mothersday #tea #spice #organic #happy #vegan #nutrition #fashion #turmeric #ginger… https://t.co/vZaMm7mwqlRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @gsrescueelite: Max is 5yrs old and this lad needs a home as his humans are emigrating. He is a very bright and keen lad who can live wi…RT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters."
"If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…Momma fanks my eyes are amazing!! 🐾🐶💙 #aussiedoodle #dogsoftwitter #dogs #RETWEEET #followme #Boxers #SaturdayVibes https://t.co/MaxcpTEwXrPOPULAR doesn’t always equal PROFITABLE. #business #entrepreneur #life #LeadershipRT @BethFratesMD: We have the ability to be what we want to be each and every new day. We can't control what happens to us. But, we can con…Happy birthday to you sister @motsimabuse ❤️ I am so happy to have you in my life 😍 wishing you all the best ❤️❤️… https://t.co/NnKiHsaod1RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗"
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
"#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @gsrescueelite: Milo is 2yrs old and this lovely lad is looking for a very exp, child and pet free home as he does have toy/food aggress…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Cooper find a home #LOUGHBOROUGH  #dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @gsrescueelite: Misha is just a year old and already had 3 homes ! A very bright and high energy girl who can live with older kids but c…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️RT @RidyardColin: Hug a #baby #elephant and make his day; buy his book &amp; make #friends for life"
https://t.co/BkRHF07WEV
"#GrowingReaders #Ch…RT @CenterOsoul: The Day of Judgment will be a dark day wherein people will be guided only by the light of their good works in this life. #…RT @TheTwelveTails: ⚕🆘️ Please Help! Truk urgently needs an unexpected second surgery ASAP &amp; we must raise approx. $2000. He's developed 2…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 Nothing is working right for wonderful POPPIES.😥 Are you a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC who can turn her luck arou…RT @gsrescueelite: Obie is just a year old and arrived with little in the way of training and zero socialisation, he has been ok with some…Are you even in a relationship if you don’t get on each other nerves at least once a day? Asking for a friend "
"#friends #readytoloveRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @fawkestalk: Yeti at his puppy training class with his daddy.  Yeti is doing great! @LabradorYuki @DoodleNessa @Beata_Azlan @barleylabra…Beast 🔥🔥🔥RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @PeterPeGsd: @gsrescueelite has some fabulous very generous supporters look what arrived in the post for Kuma."
#BeKind #GermanShepherd #…RT @heatherrose1814: G’morning Friends/ Beautiful Souls!🌹☕️🥐😁🤎❤️ Happy Saturday and #NationalCinnamonCrescentDay! 🥐 Have a super Saturday..…Happy Sunday.

"#happy #happybychoice #sunday #sundayfunday #sundayvibes https://t.co/PETbVvtBzNRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾"
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…Andrijana Andrikj
Certified Elite life coach
.
#AndrijanaAndrikj  #contentcreator #creativewriting #lifecoaching… https://t.co/u11UM0jo4yJust finished a good bike ride with my friend and I am loving all the sunshine ☀️. Windy and refreshing. 
#happy… https://t.co/05p8C5s4LGRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @davidbombal: Success is the product of daily habits—not once-in-a-lifetime transformations.

#DailyMotivation #inspiration #motivation…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @gsrescueelite: 4yr old Scrappy has thrived in his #foster home learning all about manners and boundaries, he can live with older kids a…RT @gsrescueelite: Flash ( Ahh ) is 4yrs old and has been with us since Sept 17, he can live with older kids and other #dogs but he does ha…RT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7When friends fly to see you speak then you go for a wine tasting! #friends #speakers #trinalmartin https://t.co/ikXFkLpQxjRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…Friends in real life and now in-game, too. Let’s play Big Farm together. Use my invitation and the fun will start r… https://t.co/lT4HUcSX8gJacquavis - Stranger (Song in the works) (Freestyled Song on the spot)"

*The Bad Nigga's Songs*

"#trap #hiphop #rnb… https://t.co/4MxicD3ZHzRT @nyshelterpets: 🐾 Come adopt #AMY today! #dogs She's the loveliest! #Rescue ❤️ https://t.co/8XJ9UBAem6 https://t.co/lYikXuFz5URT @gsrescueelite: Purdey is 4yrs old and she can live with older kids, Purdey is very dog reactive and strong on the lead so she will need…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: #Dogs can keep a ball in the air longer than it takes you to sign😂💖"
We must keep it up and #BanGreyhoundRacing💔
"✒️http…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @Ranal55: The future seems to be coming more quickly every day."

"#quote #future #life #SaturdaySunshine https://t.co/Ro6UTwMBR6Who’s excited for the friends episodes 🙋‍♀️ #FriendsReunion #friendsRT @gsrescueelite: Rico is 2yrs old and this lad came to us after both his humans fell ill, Rico can live with older kids but he hasn't see…RT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…Focus: Meditation and Mindfulness For ADHD ($29.99 to FREE) #life #selfhelp #practice #mindfulness #happy… https://t.co/c2h58BzyJkRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @MiriMission: Nessy is here and she is looking for her forever home. "

Isn't she adorable?!

"If you would like to be considered, please…RT @funnydo25814387: 😍😅"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/O6BK54F2vRRT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Baby Dog has never lost his fascination with my Tail. He has whole Conversations with it. Today he seemed Cros…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @gsrescueelite: Izzy is 14mths old and was picked up as a stray at 8mths old, her hips are not very good which is probably why she was d…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @gede_prama: Inner contentment is... #Peace #gedeprama #bali #beauty #happy #healthy #holy #innerharmony #JoyTrain"

"Photo courtesy: Pint…RT @splendhealth: “The people who get on in this world are the people who get up and look for the circumstances they want...” Are you a go…The success comes when you ignore all the annoying doubts from others, ignore it all and climb! #inspire… https://t.co/LydwCvjX1BRT @RidyardColin: Hug a #baby #elephant and make his day; buy his book &amp; make #friends for life"
https://t.co/BkRHF07WEV
#GrowingReaders #Ch…RT @esraafeps: nice idea 💡 
for #mumz  #coupon 

#mumzworld AN141 

#mamas_and_papas AC85 

#patpat 8J52XR

#babies #momlife #حوامل #اطفال…RT @KhloeaMariee: REPOST *
 #TiddyTuesday😋 

#RT #Tuesday #Tittie #happy #onlyfanslinkinbio https://t.co/aF9Ckr93lHRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bella find a home #Manchester #DogsofTwittterRT @doglovers2020: 😍👀
#dogs #dogsoftwitter 
"📹: insta/molly_theblondie https://t.co/H7H9GQV2IURT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 2 yo YING in #CorpusChristi #Texas is in dire need of a #DogLover to offer to #FOSTER him TODAY! Plz RT, &amp; #PLEDGE f…That #360 tail spin 🤣🐶"
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
"📹: insta/minidoodlebentley https://t.co/Ke4j6j1C47Thankful,grateful and blessed 🙏🏽❤️🙏🏽 #happy #love #positivevibes #life #change #growth #Godfirst #spiritualjourney… https://t.co/kNUvmbYKp2RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of m… https://t.co/y5PR41nyWy"" Not all #scars show, not all #wounds #heal..."
"Sometimes you can't always see, the #pain someone #feels""."
#life #LifeGoesOn #pain #someoneRT @xvermonter61: No words needed! ❤️#Dogs #SaturdayVibes #DogsOfTwitter https://t.co/KFGcylgbEIHusky puppy drawing.
•
Time taken: 2 hours
Used: 2B pencil
•
•
Tags: #drawing #illustration #artistsontwitter #dogs… https://t.co/lzvhrXlRIRDog Vitamin and Dog Supplement Guide 🐾💖⚕
https://t.co/NYMJc8ujJR

"#australianshepherd #aussie #dogs #doghealth… https://t.co/oRrsLXiyFdIf you take this mindset, you’ll live a longer life https://t.co/N2S1MZ3stQ #life #mindset #healthGive your puppy the best start to life with Taste of the Wild Pacific Stream with smoked salmon dry food.… https://t.co/Lktl0atnxNWhy do #babies have a ""soft spot""? #fontanel #softspot #newbaby #newborns #newmom #newdad #pregnant #pregnancy… https://t.co/Cso0BTAYu42500 babies are slaughtered on the alter of convenience each day in the US. We should examine our hearts to why thi… https://t.co/OgOBRHei75RT @bulbbleinc: Happiness is not about getting all you want, it is about enjoying all you have."

#bulbbleinc #bulbble #life #happiness #tha…RT @KhushnumaKashm1: Fun time
#Happy #Kashmir https://t.co/hKlU7DcnluIt's Quarter 2 Reset.  Here are a few things you need to do!!!

Write these down in your business journal.… https://t.co/zv3RuPKtK2RT @mapleveewesem: Please don't forget these 4 #SoCal shelter #dogs . Click on their ID # to find tweets to continue to share.🙏 
"FALCON #A5…""For the great doesn't happen through impulse alone, and is a succession of little things that are brought together… https://t.co/ziqQDntLEYRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Vjay find a home #SHROPSHIRE  "
"#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @Beata_Azlan: I was surprised by my dear fren Sabre &amp; his Mom @Sabre_Pup_1 with this stunning🦊sweater made by @2DogsCandies I’m shocked,…Take a walk and breathe the fresh air . #peace #life #PositiveVibes  #puppy https://t.co/ez1Msg3AmKHappy Sunday."

"#happy #happybychoice #sunday #sundayfunday #sundayvibes https://t.co/2WzjOPP729RT @gsrescueelite: Max is 3yrs old and he is looking for a very exp, child and pet free home. Max has so much potential and is an affection…From a pipsqueak's eye "

"#honorGod #respectGod #obeyTheLawsOfGod  #liveInRighteousness #GodBlessesTheObedient… https://t.co/8XPCCCVErzRT @FaithSpiritual1: Unwaivering faith and expectancy will have you moving mountains. It is done😌🙌🏽#motivation #life #inspiration #love #su…RT @gsrescueelite: Freddie is 6yrs old and came to us via the pound, he is a steady and friendly lad but needs a child and pet free home pl…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️❤️❤️CHANEL❤️❤️"

https://t.co/ApVXQvFgwr

#chanel
#fashion
#beauty
#cosme
#happyRT @korayguerel: Friends...
#photography #fotografie #art #photoart #friendship #animals #Human #dogs https://t.co/zPMw9BdctqStudying and managing the binary option.100% guaranteed fast and cash ..

#enterpreneur #success #business… https://t.co/cezOI69bASRT @HimalyanClub: Beautiful view of Bhawan Night

📌 #katra #Vaishno_Devi #Jammu 

#TheHimalayanClub #Blessings #JaiMataDi #blessed #Divine…RT @davidbombal: Success is the product of daily habits—not once-in-a-lifetime transformations.

"#DailyMotivation #inspiration #motivation…RT @gsrescueelite: Gemma is just a year old and this girl comes from working lines. Gemma can live with older kids but needs careful intro…I normally do CashApp but drop your PayPal OR cashapp below. I wanna make someone happy today just like and retweet… https://t.co/GaogsVC7upRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…Meditation Masterclass ($94.99 to FREE) #motivation #practice #happy #mentalhealth #selfhelp #jucktion #mindfulness… https://t.co/C2Oukc1275GAY’S COVID VACCINE CONCIERGE SERVICE II — #humor #writer #author #covid #covidvaccine #losangeles #beverlyhills… https://t.co/kanPsAyXzART @Dragofix: Open your heart and home to a friend for life. https://t.co/xKoAFocWyx #SaveKoreanDogs #dog #dogs #AnimalCare #AnimalRescueRT @gsrescueelite: Pablo is 3yrs old and he can live with older kids, He is a very bright lad who is looking for a home that can keep him b…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Tango find a home #Cambridgeshire #England 🍀 https://t.co/On7oVZfVe6RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamJoin us at The Altar for our new sermon series “Extreme Makeover.”  Premiering Sunday, April 11th @ 10:00 am. #oawc… https://t.co/UnM2lZagOHRT @gsrescueelite: Indy is just a year old and she was picked up as a stray, she is a petite girl who can be quite nervous but is growing i…RT @bigskycall: Onward and upward! "
.
.
.
"#bigsky #positive #love #happy #motivation #positivevibes #positivity #life #loveyourself #inspir…RT @gsrescueelite: 5yr old Storm has come on leaps and bounds with the help of the #Lincolnshire volunteers, she can live with older kids a…RT @The_Animal_Team: Puppy #stolen from #Bisley #Surrey area, after two men went to the owner's home. Chipped. I am really having to bite m…RT @gsrescueelite: Lexi is 2yrs old and came to us after a disagreement in the home with another dog, She is a real sweetheart but does nee…Congratulations, Real Madrid. Job well done 😍🤦‍♂️"

#realmadridbarcelona #rmafans #benzema #kroos #thibautcourtois… https://t.co/XHYZ6MxcFXRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @MischiefAndFun: You never lose Friends.
Real ones will always stay - no matter what
"and the fakes, you don't need anyways."
"#Friends #To…The Pi Network’s shared #currency, trust graph, and #marketplace will be the soil for a broader ecosystem of… https://t.co/GehgHMNdrZPresident Ulysses S. Grant was once arrested during his term of office. @OMGFacts @UberFacts @WhatTheFFacts #dogs"
"S… https://t.co/T953UVVz1mRT @gsrescueelite: Jaxon is 14mths old and this lad arrived with no boundaries, training or socialisation. He has made great progress with…RT @dogfans4: That #360 tail spin 🤣🐶"
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📹: insta/minidoodlebentley https://t.co/dVaZnhhLSsRT https://t.co/BHNuFulyCc Reality check #peace #relationshipquotes #ladies #gentlemen #realtalk #fortheculture… https://t.co/B6d5DfVfVART @LearnPet: how Do #Dogs Get Kennel Cough? 4 Severe Symptoms https://t.co/ZqYAvUzsO9 #learnaboutpet #pet #pets #dog #cats #animalsRT @10_Ilovedogs: Aww ❤️
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/Q3Xo0stgDJRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @korayguerel: Friends..."
#photography #fotografie #art #photoart #friendship #animals #Human #dogs https://t.co/zPMw9BdctqRT @RadioChinar: Fun time
#Happy #Kashmir https://t.co/jQb321RCt4I admire the way you consider many alternative plot points and turnings. Your story is developing well.  Kudos. Her… https://t.co/C1ETVnimRiRT @samgtsfit: Monday #Motivation 😤🚨 !!! lets make this week a great one 🙌🏻 ... follow me on IG + Tik tok @samgtsfit https://t.co/vVb66zMTWzRT @DriverClassics: DriverClassics https://t.co/lZiNHoiOo8
" #amreading #book #kindlebook #MotivationalQuote #WritingCommunity #writing #ins…RT @Empressroseleg1: “The Birth of Empress Rose, I Want to Live And Love Again” my new book and workbook revealing how I changed from the n…RT @gsrescueelite: Carter is just a year old and this lad has so much potential, sadly he needs a child and pet free home to go back to bas…RT @DriverClassics: DriverClassics https://t.co/lZiNHo1dwA"
" #amreading #book #kindlebook #MotivationalQuote #WritingCommunity #writing #ins…RT @AuthorEddie: Take Action! And Build the Life you want  book by Eddie de Jong 21+ x 5 star reviews #motivation https://t.co/8UgKe8utrbRT @pinesoul69: My daily yoga routine #fitness #yoga #AsianHot #asiangirlsonline #cute #beautiful #sexy #happy #smile https://t.co/7tz0PWOe…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @DriverClassics: DriverClassics https://t.co/lZiNHo1dwA"
" #amreading #book #kindlebook #MotivationalQuote #WritingCommunity #writing #ins…RT @SamChai80: How To Make Your Dog Tune in To Your Commands?  #pets #dogs  https://t.co/sfkoG6eYJZRT @2blondesmedia: “The Birth of Empress Rose, I Want to Live And Love Again” @Empressroseleg1 new book and workbook revealing how she chan…#happy #tabletennisplayer Andro A200 Wood Racket with Allround Blade https://t.co/XDwaPY13vSRT @Empressroseleg1: As a wife, a mother, and a 18-year police officer, I wrote “The Birth of Empress Rose, I Want to Live And Love Again”…RT @PartTimeDragons: #motivation #dragons"
Retweets much appreciated! ❤️ https://t.co/SFfYQlydSuRT @LollyDaskal: Patience is the realization that the quality of your life is much more significant than the quantity of the things you fil…Do you #knit #crochet #quilt or #sew? Pls make something for a Navajo or Lakota baby/toddler for either of these vi… https://t.co/Q7YjOLCwwkRT @PetSuppliesHub: Give your puppy the best start to life with Taste of the Wild Pacific Stream with smoked salmon dry food.  #petlovers #…RT @fuzzylactic: We switched to winter time last week and Pochito is not ok.

"#comic #dogs https://t.co/uGcwC4er6HRT @home_with_frank: Which one of these homeowners did a better job remodeling their kitchen, 1 or 2?"

562-417-2751
Your Local Realtor
"#Liv…RT @gsrescueelite: The #Notts kennels describe 14mth old Jay as a very large Puppy🤣 He is a lovely lad who has no idea of his size and love…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ken find a home #Canterbury #England #dogs #DogsofTwittter  🍀⭐️🍀⭐️🍀RT @gsrescueelite: Paddy is 3yrs old and this lad is looking for a child and pet free home with plenty of exp please as he really didn't ha…RT @Aslanthe4eared1: So much cuteness for a #Caturday ... I just can’t with these two...  🥺😍Must Watch!  #CatsOfTwitter #dogsoftwitter #dog…RT @gsrescueelite: Skye is 5yrs old and this girl has grown so much in confidence thanks to the #Lincolnshire volunteers, she can live with…RT @harrypetsanis: ""Successful people get up everyday and repeat positive behaviors and actions. Unsuccessful people get up everyday and re…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help find the owner of this dog found #Bletchingley #Surrey "

"Found about a month ago, adult female Spri…RT @gsrescueelite: Chase is 7yrs old and the #Notts kennels say this lad is a pleasure to walk and be around, he could live with older kids…RT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!"
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGlRT @gsrescueelite: Kane is 2yrs old and came to us via the pound, He is a big lad who can be protective of his people so older kids only pl…RT @aliciagrimes71: Never think you fail in life. But think positive alway because of yourself you are #1. What ever job you dream of you c…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 Friends, if you don't already do so, please check Sandra's profile regularly &amp; help share the pups @ PVAS #Texas , n…RT @YayasanInovasi: #YIMMotivationalFriday"
 
"In order to succeed, we must first believe that we can.“
 
- Nikos Kazantzakis
 
#MOSTI #YIM…RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @gsrescueelite: 11yr old Zeus had a short #foster break where he proved he was the perfect house guest. Zeus can live with older kids an…RT @HERWINNINGCIRCL: It's Quarter 2 Reset.  Here are a few things you need to do!!!

Write these down in your business journal. 

#BUSINESS…RT @DIEBO37: And these cute #birds are drinking water #𝒟𝒾𝑒𝒷𝒪37 
https://t.co/mn065ZMobT @Maha1OB @INSTINC26289171 https://t.co/HzqWwERFbTRT @IMQuotes_Videos: Never say I Can't"" when it comes to something you want to accomplish."

#Motivation https://t.co/S8pYwzZFXGRT @MBackton: Studying and managing the binary option.100% guaranteed fast and cash ..

"#enterpreneur #success #business #motivation #milli…RT @gsrescueelite: 6yr old Caine is a lovely natured boy who can live with older kids, he can take his time to trust you so will needs a pa…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀RT @AnneScottlin: ❦Joy refuses to be confined by the expected and the practical... it overflows to become spontaneous and extraordinary. "
~…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJStay motivated https://t.co/rbWJlOInAU #motivation #procrastination #life #balance #mind
" #BlogRT @LeeRiley75: Thank you @BhamDogsHome for sending Luke his chew bone through the post, He couldn’t believe the postman brought him his fi…RT @gsrescueelite: Ceasar is 4yrs old and he can live with older kids, Ceasar is looking for a home that has #Malinois exp to give him the…RT @Emily74586826: I normally do CashApp but drop your PayPal OR cashapp below. I wanna make someone happy today just like and retweet💚(dro…RT @SaHreports: Push for my shop cos the stuff is #cheap &amp; fucking #great tbh"

#NAME?
- Prints from £6.50
"- Free UK postage on pr…😆😆How funny your husband's reaction while you wearing these, you should have these. "
https://t.co/6dZVCMdaiO… https://t.co/G3mldxiBSeRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @heatherrose1814: G’morning Friends/ Beautiful Souls!🌹☕️🥐😁🤎❤️ Happy Saturday and #NationalCinnamonCrescentDay! 🥐 Have a super Saturday..…my realness going too fast ..whoa! #trending #music #rap #hiphop #quotes #livestream #business #life #motivation… https://t.co/kCkMGssl6fRT @LollyDaskal: Patience is the realization that the quality of your life is much more significant than the quantity of the things you fil…Burnt this shoot🔥

" #photooftheday #photography #photoshoot #baltimore #dmv #dmvphotographer #quarantine #happy… https://t.co/sohtI6cMYZRT @LisaBrabson: PLEASE EVERYONE! THIS #RESCUE DESPERATELY NEEDS DONATIONS TO HELP SAVE DESPERATE #DOGS IN NEED! So full they can't handle…Amazing😂😂So beautiful dear 🎶 Melody,"
"I believe the arts ( 🎵 music, dancing 💃__,👩‍🎨👨‍🎨 🎨 , writing ✍️), heals the soul.😍"
This… https://t.co/nLAuWXr4GURT @FoPRR: Do you #knit #crochet #quilt or #sew? Pls make something for a Navajo or Lakota baby/toddler for either of these virtual baby sh…RT @FETCHDogTrainer: You'd have to be insane
To miss out on kanny Kane
Such a happy playful boy
He'd love to live down your lane 😍😜
#Monday…RT @qtdogllc: The weekend dog is a happy dog...
.
.
.
.
#qtdog #staurday #saturdayvibes #weekend #happydog #funnydog #dogcuddles #mansbestf…RT @DIEBO37: A Step Closer to the Reconstruction of the Origin of Life
#Evolution #Life #𝒟𝒾𝑒𝒷𝒪37 
"https://t.co/HCYOZnpSiuTHE TALE OF A COLLEGE APPLICANT AND A FAIRY GODMOTHER —.. - via @pensignal #collegeadmissions #collegeadvisor… https://t.co/A2MjgCpT7yHelp your dog learn to be a good boy with these socialization tips from the Purina Incredible Dog Team trainers:… https://t.co/miU0qILr7LRT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3Meditation For Beginners ($29.99 to FREE) #jucktion #body #wellness #joy #happy #fitness #health https://t.co/JM7SQoV50XRT @gsrescueelite: We told Max the #Mali we needed some fresh photos of him."
"1st he showed his serious side, then he stuck his tongue out a…Thinking about the week ahead."
Where will its path lead me.
Hopefully a better place.

#therealwaynetruman… https://t.co/z7g3V32JZKTo be beautiful means to be yourself. You don't need to be accepted by others. You need to be yourself.

"#adlegacy… https://t.co/xOj3mZApkTRT @gsrescueelite: 4yr old Isla can live with older kids but this girl is very bold and confident, she needs a home that can match her in c…RT @gsrescueelite: Milo is 2yrs old and he can live with older kids, Milo is a very anxious boy who is looking for a calm and patient home…📹#LittleTinyPiecesOfTime "

Lyrics In Life (39/49) Alice &amp; Her Sarcasm

▶️ https://t.co/rgBrGn1Qgh

"People We Met On… https://t.co/B3OSGuWJcKRT @gsrescueelite: Reko is 3yrs old and this lad is very bright and loves to learn but he can also be very protective so needs a child and…RT @10_Ilovedogs: RT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
"https://t.…RT @PRRHorseRescue: ♦️$1,948 gets the much needed round bales we need."

"Scotty is patiently awaiting your donation, relaxing in the shade.…RT @korayguerel: Friends..."
"#photography #fotografie #art #photoart #friendship #animals #Human #dogs https://t.co/zPMw9BdctqEveryone wants to be a master of something other than learning to themselves.#personaldevelopment #motivation… https://t.co/tufvmH3XWyRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @gsrescueelite: 5yr old Hunny has been with us since May 18, She can live with other #dogs but she is a bag of nerves so needs a calm, q…RT @AcousticWisdom: Come jump start your week with a little TwitterSpaces Sunday Brunch hosted by @iAmNawlinz, @InspiredByWayne, @IamDKHamm…RT @juliana_monty: Baby #lamb keeps asking to be petted just like #dogs &amp; #cats would. Live animal exports to be banned in #England &amp; #Wale…RT @gsrescueelite: Amie is 6yrs old and is the sweetest, most affectionate girl you could meet, Sadly Amie is deaf and doesn't like other #…Computers are the only thing where too much heat can cause freezing."

Drop a 🤎

#Fun #Jokes #UFConABC2 #Quotes… https://t.co/t0gacrPI1CRespect the hustle! 🤑 #itsmelissagarcia 
 
Please subscribe https://t.co/WFKxCq47jy
 
"#influencer #influencers… https://t.co/3kkN2foVsORT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 2 yo YING in #CorpusChristi #Texas is in dire need of a #DogLover to offer to #FOSTER him TODAY! Plz RT, &amp; #PLEDGE f…Happy Sunday."

"#happy #happybychoice #sunday #sundayfunday #sundayvibes https://t.co/3PSQM9UH8IRT @gsrescueelite: Max is 6yrs old and came to us via the pound in a bit of a mess, he can live with older kids but he does have hip dyspla…RT @iamkaperkins: Everyone wants to be a master of something other than learning to themselves.#personaldevelopment #motivation #personalgr…RT @gsrescueelite: Alice is 2yrs old and this poor girl had been locked in a loo till she was 7mths old ! She is a very bright girl with a…RT @mapleveewesem: @ginachron Plz RT ⬆ "
Poppies needs to find a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC to #FOSTER her STAT . Plz apply on links in…RT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7Scheduling an outdoor workout? Protect yourself from the sun with a hat or visor and use breathable fabric.… https://t.co/YHiV4Bs2flRT @dogfans4: Weekend mood
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📸: insta/pepperminidachshund https://t.co/tWzCEpeDS2RT @gsrescueelite: 7yr old Axel came to us after an incident in the home that wasn't his fault, he is a friendly and nice natured lad who c…RT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters."
"If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…Same to you sweetheart 😘RT @PokerProBV: I hate when this happens. I'm dealt K♣️/♦️ and raise pre-flop, not much, just a normal raise, and all the other players fol…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @Rakshithoficial: Stay safe , stay #Happy 🙏 https://t.co/MOTIMKFdgRRT @nicegirlola: Im HORNY and NEED SOMEONE HELP   #RT for a #dm"

#happy #fucking #hope #busty #hotbabe #girls #fuck
#porn #cam4 #uk_sex
"#ti…RT @coach_nicola: Scheduling an outdoor workout? Protect yourself from the sun with a hat or visor and use breathable fabric. #SmartFitness…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @gsrescueelite: And it's another #happydance 💃 as Arlo has left the #Notts kennels and if he behaves he will be staying, be good Arlo ❤🐾…RT @daisy_pom: Friends, I got the most gorgeous bandana in the mail from my bichon pal, Poppy in Scotland! I love it! And it’s from our fri…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…RT @CourseOp: Meditation Masterclass ($94.99 to FREE) #motivation #practice #happy #mentalhealth #selfhelp #jucktion #mindfulness #life #jo…RT @cali_jetfan: @Victoriagatoll1 @JonBlaire @Gemini21BLM @PissOffTrumpz @Sexy_kittykat13 @robertjlundberg @eel_nude @nathaliejacoby1 @radi…RT @akeem525: Congratulations, Real Madrid. Job well done 😍🤦‍♂️"

"#realmadridbarcelona #rmafans #benzema #kroos #thibautcourtois #laliga #sp…RT @gsrescueelite: It's been a while since I have said this but...Get Those Happy Dance Shoes On 💃 Kuma has left the #lincolnshire kennels…RT @TableTennisElit: #happy #tabletennisplayer Andro A200 Wood Racket with Allround Blade https://t.co/XDwaPY13vSRT @bundoohealth: Why do #babies have a ""soft spot""? #fontanel #softspot #newbaby #newborns #newmom #newdad #pregnant #pregnancy #whattoexp…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @LiftingHumanity: #InspirationElevatesHumanity"
If it inspires me I do it
If it doesn't I don't
Meaningful simplified life?
#inspirationa…RT @CourseOp: Meditation For Beginners ($29.99 to FREE) #jucktion #body #wellness #joy #happy #fitness #health https://t.co/JM7SQoV50X#fit #motivation #body Women's Leopard Printed Sportswear Set 2 pcs https://t.co/3bF3bS3dPD https://t.co/QUhRDul72vRT @FunnyThUSA: Time to fairy tales 🥰🥰🥰 #dogs https://t.co/C0DwtrpN8fRT @SulenaOlivia: Happy Sunday.

#happy #happybychoice #sunday #sundayfunday #sundayvibes https://t.co/3PSQM9UH8IRT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…RT @noveliciouss: #Literature is the most agreeable way of ignoring #life.
 - Fernando Pessoa 
"#reading #writing https://t.co/LKM3pXXifbRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 2 yo YING in #CorpusChristi #Texas is in dire need of a #DogLover to offer to #FOSTER him TODAY! Plz RT, &amp; #PLEDGE f…RT @FL_FLOWI: FOLLOW #FRIENDS "
@RampalS64916312 
@Olpeko1 
@KH313NS 
@Zar_43
@B1nadir
@NawabTaimur
@1Hqim
@seleksultan35
@bakht_jui 
@Bakht…i love this lady so much plsBenefits of a liberal arts education. #taoofthelibedalarts #liberalarts #Humanities #STEM #Education #life https://t.co/ZT4W1XbXyeRT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021

"These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @tucsonrosie2001: So beautiful dear 🎶 Melody,"
"I believe the arts ( 🎵 music, dancing 💃🕺,👩‍🎨👨‍🎨 🎨 , writing ✍️), heals the soul.😍"
This was…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀 https://t.co/iCbcekDL9V😳Caught in the act 😜 Tag others and follow us for more on @saynaija #saynaija #neduwazobiafm #love #life 🎥… https://t.co/l1AfIvOys7RT @Naysair1: ✨ Happy birthday Big Man ✨
Song: Cooler than me -Lucky Luke
Ac: guzmanaudios
Cc: VidsByAria
"#tommyinnit #dreamsmp #dreamnotfo…RT @IMQuotes_Videos: Never say ""I Can't"" when it comes to something you want to accomplish."

"#Motivation https://t.co/S8pYwzZFXGRT @Dphomebuyers: Pause, but don't quit! Every progress counts! #success #discipline #dphomebuyers #denmarkproperties #successfulpeople #pr…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage"
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

"#…""Genius is 1% inspiration, and 99% perspiration."" Thomas Edison - Thanks to motivation and sacrifice, great heights… https://t.co/2JFE5gvaAwRompers, 0-3m"
https://t.co/GSnv8TvEeo

"#babiesofinstagram #lovebabies #littlebaby #infantclothing #babyfashion… https://t.co/uFFLubLNkGRT @harrypetsanis: ""Successful people get up everyday and repeat positive behaviors and actions. Unsuccessful people get up everyday and re…RT @emel0371: I say hello to a new week with the magnificent dance of the birds.👋🕊🕊🕊🕊"

Reels video by Claire Droppert ( IG claireonline) 💯…sorry guys I forgot to update y’all I could go it’s mom brought me to his house I am #happyRT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @FoPRR: Do you #knit #crochet #quilt or #sew? Pls make something for a Navajo or Lakota baby/toddler for either of these virtual baby sh…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀 https://t.co/iCbcekDL9VSaturday Workout Accomplished 💪🏻😁👍🏻 #nopainnogain #spartan #motivation #fitness #journey #fitfam #explorepage @ LA… https://t.co/SIn1oa6x3BRT @IamTabithaBrown: It’s not too late for you! I ❤️you! #tabithabrown #Motivation https://t.co/kEUlCPYs6tAstoria showing off her birthday present; her first skate deck.  #happy  #grandkidsarethebest❤️ https://t.co/RsbHiMOGPTRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gil find a home #Carmarthenshire #Wales 🍀 https://t.co/l33fd5bY64RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 Nothing is working right for wonderful POPPIES.😥 Are you a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC who can turn her luck arou…RT @doglovers2020: 😍👀
#dogs #dogsoftwitter 
📹: insta/molly_theblondie https://t.co/H7H9GQV2IURT @IshaEurope: I do not believe in telling people what they should do. My business is only to make you conscious.

#Sadhguru #Life #Wisdom…Your Saturday Special &gt; 50% OFF &gt; https://t.co/LPkUVUF8fS

#onlinebusiness #salesfunnel #anybusiness… https://t.co/oc4AlNxUIJBabies Casual Sneakers #child #babies https://t.co/aXOcHubaWg https://t.co/wufCkpZJZ9RT @PartTimeDragons: #motivation #dragons
"Retweets much appreciated! ❤️ https://t.co/SFfYQlydSuEverything in your life is a reflection of a choice you have made. If you want a different result, make a different… https://t.co/JWLvuQvJo9To be old and wise, you must first have to be yound and stupid.. #motivationIntro to the Cannibal Kaboom Sleeved Tri Suit. Something different always works. ##motivation #trisuut #triathlon… https://t.co/rIoYmzBNwSRT @mapleveewesem: @ginachron Plz RT ⬆ "
"Poppies needs to find a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC to #FOSTER her STAT . Plz apply on links in…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @RoscoeLonestar: Asher, Manny’s little brother has the deadly Parvovirus. We need help with funds 4 treatment (estimated $3,500) and pra…HELLO #DEEZER PEOPLE"

"LOT OF GENRES, LOT OF MOODS"
#ELECTRONICA #DANCE #HOUSE #EDM #AMBIENT #LOUNGE #DOWNTEMPO… https://t.co/fne925gM3tRT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7RT @CupAlan: Tomorrow’s episode is a ‘part 1’ - too much stuff for just one show! @Nickalbertautho likes to chat 😂 #ireland #dogs #expat #t…RT @AdoptionsUk: Urgent retweet please to help Jessica find a home #BRIDGEND #WALES 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿
AGED 14 Looking for a quiet home ok with childr…We can all make a difference without money! 🐹🐹🐇🐕🐈‍⬛💕

#GuineaPigs #Rabbits #Cats #Dogs #Animals #AnimalRescues… https://t.co/El3bG1SwUYRT @JillMonoscalco: When you try to take a classy photo with Chompers…but instead you get peed on… #chompers @chomps_a_yorkie #dogsoftwitte…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 Nothing is working right for wonderful POPPIES.😥 Are you a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC who can turn her luck arou…Day 101: Late Day.
"Dad was super busy this morning and had lots of errands, but I got to ride in the car with him!… https://t.co/zGBV1Rpr8i."

The earth has music for those who listen.

  - George Snatayana 

"Great quotations, learn fast, free app:… https://t.co/UlRRGJRoZuFor beautiful eyes, look for the good in others; for beautiful lips, speak only words of kindness; and for poise, wal #friends #friendshipsstay centered ✨stacking our Sol rings is the perfect way to achieve a balanced look 💫 #business #entrepreneur… https://t.co/PGLpn6hyOmRT @pawg_queen40: Hey, message me to join my F-A-F . "
.
.
"#followme #loveyou #love #like #instagood #instagram #follow #art #happy #dog #ph…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @harrypetsanis: ""Successful people get up everyday and repeat positive behaviors and actions. Unsuccessful people get up everyday and re…RT @Berti_and_Ernie: Let me cheer you up!  smile #dogs https://t.co/dC1xzp4VmgMost great people have attained their greatest success just one step beyond their greatest failure.   -Napoleon Hil… https://t.co/Vz3kPEYHCvRT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
"https://t.co/HL3xKBhh0eRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRole available pls 🙏🏽
"#friends https://t.co/NNP9DoaEnbKONG Genius Mike Assorted Dog Toy #dogs #petsupplies #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram https://t.co/B6tGXxPXDXHome, nowadays, is a place where part of the family waits till the rest of the family brings the car back.  "
-Earl… https://t.co/3MN6gpNoL2RT @gone_family: Happy Birthday 🎊🎁🎂🎈🎉 to my favorite song by my favorite band-released #OTD 32 yrs ago!
"The Cure - Lullaby (Official Music…#happy  #streetstyle #moda Tulip Shaped USB Aroma Diffuser https://t.co/8rNH2yH7OFRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 2 yo YING in #CorpusChristi #Texas is in dire need of a #DogLover to offer to #FOSTER him TODAY! Plz RT, &amp; #PLEDGE f…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help find homes for Fergal, Cody and Teddy (separately) #BALLYMENA #NorthernIreland "

"For details of the…We all see through glasses of our past, so much right and wrong is all perspective #lifeRT @FoPRR: Do you #knit #crochet #quilt or #sew? Pls make something for a Navajo or Lakota baby/toddler for either of these virtual baby sh…RT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾"
"#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…RT @Bella_Ely_: @otrogoga60 @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @IMQuotes_Videos: Never say ""I Can't"" when it comes to something you want to accomplish."

"#Motivation https://t.co/S8pYwzZFXGRT @ERebuilds: Our #prayers and #condolences goes out to the #family and #friends. R.I.H.P You will be missed @ East Chicago, Indiana https…RT @harrypetsanis: ""Successful people get up everyday and repeat positive behaviors and actions. Unsuccessful people get up everyday and re…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @xxxCumJunkiexxx: 5/5 Just when she couldn’t get any cuter…"
#amateur #cute #girlfriend #private #happy #cum #facial https://t.co/K6ohPSO…RT @aliciagrimes71: Never think you fail in life. But think positive alway because of yourself you are #1. What ever job you dream of you c…RT @PaxtonAkita: Day 101: Late Day.
"Dad was super busy this morning and had lots of errands, but I got to ride in the car with him! I decid…Neoprene Wetsuit Diving Gloves #crazy #motivation https://t.co/YZfCdEPJqi https://t.co/909cpCEHAURT @FETCHDogTrainer: You'd have to be insane"
To miss out on kanny Kane
Such a happy playful boy
He'd love to live down your lane 😍😜
#Monday…RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Violet went #missing on 8/4/21 from #AtkinsonFarm #ChorleyNewRoad #Bolton #BL1 area. #OldeEnglishBulldog Chipped and…RT @dogfans4: This is pure joy!
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/DoZalzpjJkRT @xxxCumJunkiexxx: Hot blonde happy with a face covered in fresh semen…
"#amateur #blonde #private #pics #happy #cum #facial https://t.co/…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️With our visitor forwarding software, we are able to easily refocus our quality traffic to your web pagein an insta… https://t.co/dFjVDd68B1RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @Bella_Ely_: @otrogoga60 @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…Super proud of myself! #IReallyHadToGo #CouldntHoldItAnyLonger @catturd2RT @Fateme14a: 🐜🐜🐜"

The Ant Philosophy 
"Never give up, Look Ahead, Stay positive and do all you can."

🐜🐜🐜

"#Motivation https://t.co/UeMxZO1…RT @ILovemy58919370: RT @funnydo25814387: She was a Pit Bull and she was ""ugly"" and ""unappealing"" to shelter visitors. She would sit in a c…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Obi find a home #LIVERPOOL "

"German Shep/Malamute aged 7 'playful teddy', looking for an experience…Don't Forget to Sign up now to https://t.co/Lll2kUwVyJ and recieve your free sucess proposal. Sign up now. "
#life… https://t.co/BxLil8NI8zRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @paintmyblues: #covid19 #Life #Society #worldwide
Day 19 - Going on
in these dark times . https://t.co/S7XSd28Ge8RT @otrogoga60: @bovb51 @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi2…RT @Flow_blume: @Bella_Ely_ @otrogoga60 @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @FoPRR: Do you #knit #crochet #quilt or #sew? Pls make something for a Navajo or Lakota baby/toddler for either of these virtual baby sh…RT @10_Ilovedogs: Synchronized tail wagging
"#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram https://t.co/iZKZvbDYGbRT @Melo1541: In this mad world, I'll put that video over here... hopefully, it'll bring some lights and even make you realize what truly m…RT @tucsonrosie2001: So beautiful dear 🎶 Melody,"
"I believe the arts ( 🎵 music, dancing 💃🕺,👩‍🎨👨‍🎨 🎨 , writing ✍️), heals the soul.😍"
"This was…One of my favorite sayings of all times!!! #smile #happy #loveyourself #justbreathe https://t.co/eMJcadhrVsRT @AKCHercules: Please help if you can, we did! ❤️ @nuggetsdrooling @RidleyHowell @casie190 @abby_bulldog @itsSirGustafson @Catsemail @elv…So good I had to share! Check out all the items I'm loving on @Poshmarkapp #poshmark #fashion #style #shopmycloset… https://t.co/VT6Or9swYWRT @MischiefAndFun: You never lose Friends."
Real ones will always stay - no matter what
"and the fakes, you don't need anyways."
"#Friends #To…Sitting by the river for a big exhale. #canyouimagineme #longtimecoming #startingtobreathe #emotions @ Charles Poin… https://t.co/JEV8fpW16VRT @SoulShelter2: After moving the poisoned #mother #dog to our shelter, she refued to eat because of her bad situation, for her #puppies..…RT @Model_MariaJade: I never show anybody my little songs I make but the other night tho 🙈 filmed by. @AdaraJordin  #life https://t.co/c16g…RT @BuffWoofer: No matter what life throws your way, keep moving forward! "

#ThinkBigSundayWithMarsha #KeepMovingForward #Motivation #Life…RT @esi_lynn: Role available pls 🙏🏽
#friends https://t.co/NNP9DoaEnbRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @bikalshrestha_: Most great people have attained their greatest success just one step beyond their greatest failure.   -Napoleon Hill 
#…Like and share if you think it`s fantastic!
"#littlecherubins #babyroom #babygift #babyphoto #babies #babiesofig https://t.co/wMFeYzbjPm@steelutdsoccer ended 2020 soccer season early due to #COVID, offered reduced credits for future season, no prorate… https://t.co/HXGk6pcl5SIf you seek your own #meaning in your professional and personal life, like I do, how do you start?"

Developing an… https://t.co/XEXVnGA79QRT @DIEBO37: Smiling can trick the body into helping you elevate your mood #𝒟𝒾𝑒𝒷𝒪37 #Motivation https://t.co/3T6b71PIrzRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @SRDHAIN: Prem Rawat 

#PremRawat #wopg #inspired #peaceiswithinyou #KnowThyself #wordsofpeace #inspirational #fulfilment #joy #humanity…RT @Fateme14a: 🐯💞🐯

Enjoy every moment of life because you don't know what will happen tomorrow.

🍃🌿🍃🌿

#Motivation https://t.co/s0tEGniuZmRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @doglovers2020: 😍👀"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter 
"📹: insta/molly_theblondie https://t.co/H7H9GQV2IU""Discipline Your Mind to Think Positively: Discipline your mind to see the good in every situation and look on the… https://t.co/fYA2LN19DKRT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu"

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @trapgoosegaming: We are doing community night right now we are playing some jack box and chatting come hangout.

What games do you like…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️RT @LadyChessington: We can all make a difference without money! 🐹🐹🐇🐕🐈‍⬛💕

#GuineaPigs #Rabbits #Cats #Dogs #Animals #AnimalRescues #Rescue…Think about it.  It makes sense.RT @seriouslyjo18: This is what we need. Happiness &amp; positivity.  Enjoy &amp; make the most of every day. 💜💜💜RT @CourseOp: Meditation For Beginners ($29.99 to FREE) #jucktion #body #wellness #joy #happy #fitness #health https://t.co/JM7SQoV50XRT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…RT @FarahJadran: GOOD NEWS: @SyracusePolice reunite missing dog with Syracuse woman | @CNYCentral #dogs #goodnews #Syracuse

"Aisis ran of…“I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sight again, ever.”… https://t.co/COOYSgAEVoRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Suzie and Murphy find a home #Edinburgh #Lothians #Scotland 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿"
"'Active wee dogs' aged 12, can…Tired. 💤"

"#Beagles #Saturdays #Dogs #Instagram #Post #LazyDays #Couch #BrownEyes https://t.co/LFLKufrRvzAn estimated 1 out of 4 persons worldwide now suffers from depression. Thanks @OECD for hosting this discussion.  I… https://t.co/wPSloIlC22RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀 https://t.co/iCbcekDL9VI've just watched episode S07 | E11 of Friends! #Friends  https://t.co/8gEBxlpxRB #tvtime https://t.co/Fbwmkbmpw5RT @harrypetsanis: ""We don't make mistakes because we're human. We make mistakes because we make poor choices and have dysfunctional mindse…RT @mapleveewesem: @ginachron Plz RT ⬆ "
Poppies needs to find a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC to #FOSTER her STAT . Plz apply on links in…Follow @MotivationBytes for daily Inspiration #Quotes #Inspiration #Motivation #inspirational #Motivational… https://t.co/Fn20fNw2BSRT @MiriMission: Nessy is here and she is looking for her forever home. 

Isn't she adorable?!

"If you would like to be considered, please…RT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7Children imitate what we do, not what we say!🙏This is Bennett, my favorite neighbor. Yes, even neighbors pay attent… https://t.co/GkiuW4ubJ5RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! "

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @funnydo25814387: 😍😅
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/O6BK54F2vRThe day you plant the seed is not the day you eat the fruit.
Patience is a necessity.
#patienceisavirtue 
#courage… https://t.co/XPa42dpUo2RT @otrogoga60: @bovb51 @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi2…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJAs we are almost at the end of the weekend. Remember to enjoy it as much as you can. 

"Enjoy your Weekend!!… https://t.co/KHGxm1LdYKIf #love is constitution of your #life,  you will never obey intellect| Sufi Master Younus AlGohar #Quote… https://t.co/ZGwEgJQLWRRT @Laurettamylove: Feeling blessed &amp; grateful to celebrate the gift of #Life &amp; #Love with my beautiful daughter Layla.There Is a precious…RT @ikhlaqgohar: If #love is constitution of your #life,  you will never obey intellect| Sufi Master Younus AlGohar #Quote #sundayvibes #Sp…RT @ikhlaqgohar: If #love is constitution of your #life,  you will never obey intellect| Sufi Master Younus AlGohar #Quote #sundayvibes #Sp…RT @Alex_Verbeek: ❤️ "

"Returning to school with her new prosthetic leg. So sweet how she is greeted, hugged, accepted, and then it is time…Atomic Habits, I Will Teach You To Be Rich, Mindset, The One Thing 4 Books Collection Set"
"#selfhelp #selflove… https://t.co/C0MumIADyOWhatever you do, do it with all your might. Work at it, early and late, in season and out of season, not leaving a… https://t.co/pvuiX4CtIPGet your fitness plan straight by getting all the accessories you need to workout from @balabangles."

"#fitness #gym… https://t.co/wG6qInWCxCRT @ikhlaqgohar: If #love is constitution of your #life,  you will never obey intellect| Sufi Master Younus AlGohar #Quote #sundayvibes #Sp…Does technology control you ? or Do you control the technology? What do you think?"
"#life #mindfulness #designCave Talk is a #blog post on the coolest #blogging site around, #wordpress -so check it out. NEW every day, so chec… https://t.co/Oy6vu0b4ddYoga Strap Stretch Straps For Physical Therapy With Exercise Booklet &amp; Carry Bag "

https://t.co/bmakNaxWmw… https://t.co/dADnKprRzART @funnydo25814387: 😍😅
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/O6BK54F2vRRT @TheTwelveTails: ⚕🆘️ Please Help! Truk urgently needs an unexpected second surgery ASAP &amp; we must raise approx. $2000. He's developed 2…You know who's really cool? 😎 @Janefonda and here's our interview with her: https://t.co/GfglZPNG4d #life https://t.co/ZOywaSbM4nRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 Please help KUTCHER leave SEAACA alive &amp; find his forever home. He's looking for a #DogLover in So #CA to #ADOPT or…RT @ikhlaqgohar: If #love is constitution of your #life,  you will never obey intellect| Sufi Master Younus AlGohar #Quote #sundayvibes #Sp…Daily Reflections                                    #essentialsofrec #Blame #Emotions https://t.co/vXCa2paB3CPandemic life is one wild ride. Some days we're barely holding on and some days we're  doing our best to smile.  Yo… https://t.co/SgSMh5hRqtRT @KhushnumaKashm1: Fun time"
"#Happy #Kashmir https://t.co/hKlU7DcnluRT @gay_snow: GAY’S COVID VACCINE CONCIERGE SERVICE II — #humor #writer #author #covid #covidvaccine #losangeles #beverlyhills #nyc #hampto…Scientists believe that dogs not only dream as we do, but also that they dream similarly to us, meaning that they r… https://t.co/nrOEuAEELfRT @gay_snow: THE TALE OF A COLLEGE APPLICANT AND A FAIRY GODMOTHER —.. - via @pensignal #collegeadmissions #collegeadvisor #education #har…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Vjay find a home #SHROPSHIRE  "
"#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @funnydo25814387: Luna was fatally shot while pursuing a suspect. Our hearts go out to her fellow officers — thank you for your service,…RT @BuffWoofer: No matter what life throws your way, keep moving forward! "

#ThinkBigSundayWithMarsha #KeepMovingForward #Motivation #Life…RT @gay_snow: Check out this fun article! The Crowning of Ms. COVID Beverly Hills! | Medium - via @pensignal #beverly hills #los angeles #l…This Task is too Big for Me
"I don’t think anyone can honestly say, “I’ve never faced a task I could not handle.” Li… https://t.co/LnXUr4Nv8sRT @FL_FLOWI: FOLLOW #FRIENDS "
@RampalS64916312 
@Olpeko1 
@KH313NS 
@Zar_43
@B1nadir
@NawabTaimur
@1Hqim
@seleksultan35
@bakht_jui 
@Bakht…RT @gay_snow: COLLEGE ADMISSIONS: CLASS OF 2025 — via @pensignal #education #collegeadvising #reading #writing #writer #sharestories #ivyle…RT @doglovers2020: Somepawdy pls save my bol!
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
"📹: insta/brian_9229 https://t.co/rnlMnZKcaXRT @ILovemy58919370: RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my s…""I only wish that wisdom were the kind of thing that flowed... from the vessel that as full to the one that was emp… https://t.co/Si6NtRLH37Sustain Your Motivation -  #motivation https://t.co/mlmuugAOw2❝Yummy fish &amp; chips, a great place to eat when the weather is nice❞ - Richard Bailey"

Open Daily 🇨🇦 11am - 7pm⁠​⁠⠀⁠… https://t.co/QYfP82wUWuRT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021

These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…Allstate is hiring in Cicero for a Allstate Sales Agent. Click now to apply! 
https://t.co/8DArRJnbAm

"#cicero #chi… https://t.co/NpnXWzPHkfRT @MagdalenaMeisel: ❤️Dear Friends, I am sending you this timeless beautiful song and wish you all a romantic evening❤️"
"🎧I Will Always Lov…Happy birthday to a wonderful soul and my personal person @mzelorm, God keep you growing from strength to strength.… https://t.co/zgUOMqC9GpRT @FoPRR: Do you #knit #crochet #quilt or #sew? Pls make something for a Navajo or Lakota baby/toddler for either of these virtual baby sh…RT @DigitalMehmet: Sustain Your Motivation -  #motivation https://t.co/mlmuugAOw2RT @johnwinters14: Come on #Texas Let's help these two beautiful siblings find their forever home. Please open your hearts and homes to bot…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage"
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

"#…RT @TaoLiberalArts: Benefits of a liberal arts education. #taoofthelibedalarts #liberalarts #Humanities #STEM #Education #life https://t.co…RT @WithStoics: ""I only wish that wisdom were the kind of thing that flowed... from the vessel that as full to the one that was empty."" - #…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…Morning workout with @NickHexum and an afternoon hike in Zion National Park with my dogs.… https://t.co/H4Yemi6MNvRT @wnalls1: This Task is too Big for Me"
"I don’t think anyone can honestly say, “I’ve never faced a task I could not handle.” Life’s journe…RT @MagdalenaMeisel: ❤️Dear Friends, I am sending you this timeless beautiful song and wish you all a romantic evening❤️"
🎧I Will Always Lov…Scarves collection for ladies.
Feel free to come &amp; shop.

#Happy sunday ☕🍍🍮🍾RT @funnydo25814387: Perfect place for a nap
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/7pojyz83yqRT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @bikalshrestha_: With the realization of ones own potential and self-confidence in ones ability, one can build a better world. -Dalai La…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK "

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGl#SaturdaysareSTILLfortheboys out here in #Colorado . Had ourselves quite the hike enjoying the clear skies and warm… https://t.co/wSQeV0BAEaThe future depends on what we do in the present.
#NAME?

"#ENLIVEN #bebetter #qotd #motivation #quotes https://t.co/Cj6txH3yfBRT @TwoDogsAndAGuy: #SaturdaysareSTILLfortheboys out here in #Colorado . Had ourselves quite the hike enjoying the clear skies and warm wea…RT @masonisgolden: I JUST HIT 600 FOLLOWERS! 🎊 I can’t believe, me, the little golden doodle, can make so many friends on here! I love you…RT @WorkAtHomeMikeM: You don't have to be great to start but you need to start to be great! "

Get started towards your greatness today!

ht…RT @moulij: Get Inspired: The Sarcastic Me
I just love my coffee and myself!🙂

#getinspired #mouli #mj #thesarcasticme #Sarcasm #motivation…Chloè and I want to wish you a happy Saturday! 💖❤️

#sashaanne #simplysashaanne #actress #model #singer #promua… https://t.co/AO0ROgHPQURT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

"#…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @theStonebot: #Legit, boss of the Firestarter Faction. He's an explosive foe with powerful fire attacks, devastating blasts and all the…RT @Emily74586826: I normally do CashApp but drop your PayPal OR cashapp below. I wanna make someone happy today just like and retweet💚(dro…RT @harrypetsanis: ""We weren't created to please everyone, serve everyone, take advice from everyone, and live in a manner that benefits ev…RT @lolcorporate_sg: [Our motivational thought for the week]"

Strive for Greatness 
#NAME?

"#motivation #LeBronJames https://t.co/p…RT @IMQuotes_Videos: Never say ""I Can't"" when it comes to something you want to accomplish."

#Motivation https://t.co/S8pYwzZFXGRT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
"#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3RT @theStonebot: #Legit, boss of the Firestarter Faction. He's an explosive foe with powerful fire attacks, devastating blasts and all the…Challenge your limits."
"#fitness #motivation https://t.co/ysltCd5ownRT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
"https://t.co/HL3xKBhh0eRT @TheTwelveTails: It was amazing seeing, hugging &amp; sugaring up Tucker T! He's feeling ruff but surgery went great &amp; he has several med's…RT @10_Ilovedogs: Somepawdy pls save my bol!"
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📹: insta/brian_9229 https://t.co/Kkzi4qUTGFPut a little sparkle in your step.. #SaturdayMotivation #motivation https://t.co/qYzfcDXqg5RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @Emily74586826: I normally do CashApp but drop your PayPal OR cashapp below. I wanna make someone happy today just like and retweet💚(dro…RT @korayguerel: Friends...
#photography #fotografie #art #photoart #friendship #animals #Human #dogs https://t.co/zPMw9BdctqRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
"If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 If you are a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC &amp; can share your home, 1 of these 4 sweet &amp; beautiful #dogs needs you to…RT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”"
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
"📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…""It always seems impossible until it's done."" #quote #quotes #inspiration #motivation #true #quoteofthedayJust look, that`s outstanding!"
 #pets #dogs #cats #familypets #petastic #doglovers #catlovers #petlovers… https://t.co/pWBsJqCyv8Simple Puffy Layer Flower Girl Ball Gown https://t.co/u96HRxkBjf #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion… https://t.co/D8Td7GEnV5RT @dogfans4: This is pure joy!
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/DoZalzpjJkRT @gsrescueelite: 2 weeks to get him out his kennel.
1 month to let us walk him.
Add a month for him to trust 1 person.
"Another month for…RT @harrypetsanis: ""Successful people get up everyday and repeat positive behaviors and actions. Unsuccessful people get up everyday and re…Dogs should not have birthdays but happy birthday to my dog and my dog only! #dogs #birthdayRT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Vijay find a home #Shropshire "

"Sweet Collie aged 2-5,  loves human company and is looking for an a…RT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021"

"These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…MRT @tim_fargo #motivation Half the lies they tell abt me aren't true. - Yogi Berra #quote #WeekendWisdom https://t.co/DZP0f9ull0RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀Great article by Kymberlee Price on #lea@Kym_Possibleambuilding, being a gamer I loved the analogy of a raiding par… https://t.co/JZcfp5hT9kThe path to physical and mental well being. #mentalhealth #depression #compassion #inspiration… https://t.co/dg95kZOvfPHmmm we can’t eliminate all problems from our lives, so develop patience and increase our faith as life will always… https://t.co/T84BBC4NHtRT @ikhlaqgohar: If #love is constitution of your #life,  you will never obey intellect| Sufi Master Younus AlGohar #Quote #sundayvibes #Sp…RT @thecrowdview: MRT @tim_fargo #motivation Half the lies they tell abt me aren't true. - Yogi Berra #quote #WeekendWisdom https://t.co/DZ…You Live You Learn You Grow - Greed is a choice think better &amp; Seek Healthier Choices.  Better Days 2021 #friends… https://t.co/8CHcJBKwKLRT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021"

"These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @carlaacarlson: Believe in your ability to #learn.  Trust in yourself to take the next step.  Celebrate your… https://t.co/UXfZC3U2JwI grew up with six brothers. That's how I learned to dance -waiting for the bathroom.  "
"-Bob Hope… https://t.co/7Kdd6errN0If you change the way you look at things, the things you look at change.  "
#NAME?

#DiamondVanguardAwards… https://t.co/sgLRWRO2z5RT @Snishaa2: Good Night to All My ℒℴѴℯly
Friends👫
"Thank You All For Your ℒฺℴฺνℯฺ, Likes,"
"Rtt, Following &amp; Supporrt This Week🌸"
"ℒℴѵℯ You All…Mesh Tutu Dress and Headband Set https://t.co/weQR4g0OW2 #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion #kids… https://t.co/Lwce4IQ8cWRT @masonisgolden: I JUST HIT 600 FOLLOWERS! 🎊 I can’t believe, me, the little golden doodle, can make so many friends on here! I love you…RT @LisaBrabson: PLEASE EVERYONE! THIS #RESCUE DESPERATELY NEEDS DONATIONS TO HELP SAVE DESPERATE #DOGS IN NEED! So full they can't handle…RT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾"
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…RT @FoPRR: Do you #knit #crochet #quilt or #sew? Pls make something for a Navajo or Lakota baby/toddler for either of these virtual baby sh…Play in that cat while I switch gears 💥 
• @poohshiesty 
•
•
•
#miami #explore #fashion #ceo #explorepage #happy… https://t.co/pTooPc7qQmLast night was fun...hanged out with bunch of friends ...legit sugarbaby needed to txt or dm me on WhatsApp 330-485… https://t.co/GbjnngpeKgRT @trapgoosegaming: We are doing community night right now we are playing some jack box and chatting come hangout.

What games do you like…RT @Princes51989945: After spending another day supervising Hoomom doing the yard work .... I have decided to turn in my resignation. I’m p…RT @Bella_Ely_: @otrogoga60 @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @Emily74586826: I normally do CashApp but drop your PayPal OR cashapp below. I wanna make someone happy today just like and retweet💚(dro…RT @eldiablo0786: Put the past behind. Move forward one inspired step at a time.

via @Inspireu2Action 

#ThinkBIGSundayWithMarsha 
"#Inspir…RT @ikhlaqgohar: If #love is constitution of your #life,  you will never obey intellect| Sufi Master Younus AlGohar #Quote #sundayvibes #Sp…I was thinking of the word "
" #plasticity (neuro-)  ...meaning in our #everyday #life it's about forming new ways, t… https://t.co/e4x630OdIRRT @MagdalenaMeisel: ❤️Dear Friends, I am sending you this timeless beautiful song and wish you all a romantic evening❤️"
🎧I Will Always Lov…RT @LiftingHumanity: There is no failure except in giving up. There is no negative outcome. You either win or you learn. There is no imposs…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rosie and Scamp find a home together #CountyDurham 
#dogs #dogsoftwitterBreaken Denim Jacket https://t.co/CR5G4ZkKir #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion #kids #babyshower… https://t.co/3qnvj7L4JdRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…@StellaArtois Feel like? @KristenMaizon  More like neeeeed 😂🙄🤣 #ShareAStella #CheersSaluteSkål #FriendsRT @MadamSeraphina: Thank you! #Stream #SmallStreamer #Soulsborne #DemonSouls @fromsoftware_pr #gaming #linkinbio #follow #subscribe #love…Today is good day 4 u😍"
Everyone have fabulous day🤘
#EnjoyingEverydayLife 
#livefun
"#lookingforwardtotheday… https://t.co/legEpdiLe3RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @LadyChessington: We can all make a difference without money! 🐹🐹🐇🐕🐈‍⬛💕"

"#GuineaPigs #Rabbits #Cats #Dogs #Animals #AnimalRescues #Rescue…Many people think the areas of self-improvement and motivational speaking are hot new industries, but the truth is… https://t.co/THmOAjIPe8Scored this sweet #connorhellebuyck @CCMHockey pro stock game ready glove from when he used #ccm 🔥🔥🔥🔥 LOVE IT… https://t.co/dMtyijgTVTRT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021"

These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…You either win or you learn.

"#MotivationalQuotes #life #successRT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…25 things to love about #teaching online | ♥ 22. If you work from a home office, you can ""hire"" four-legged support… https://t.co/pPyXFhaLE6RT @AKCHercules: Please help if you can, we did! ❤️ @nuggetsdrooling @RidleyHowell @casie190 @abby_bulldog @itsSirGustafson @Catsemail @elv…RT @lresearcher: Happy Saturday! It’s #dinner #supper #time if I was a taller #dog #beagle #bulldog #beabull I could reach the #table hopin…RT @ILoveanimalslol: April #Food Box funding appeal "
"Please #help us to bring food for these pretty angels (#dogs+#cats) April round, we ho…Helping with the yard work."

"#dog #dogs #dogslife #dogsofinstagram #dogbehaviour #adogslife #furbaby #furbabies… https://t.co/glthPPL8snSleeveless Heart Patchwork Sweet Dress https://t.co/3usJ7fnzAK #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion… https://t.co/BegM27LCBCRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jay Jay find a home #Cotswolds #Gloucestershire #dogsoftwitter  #dogsRT @tucsonrosie2001: So beautiful dear 🎶 Melody,"
"I believe the arts ( 🎵 music, dancing 💃🕺,👩‍🎨👨‍🎨 🎨 , writing ✍️), heals the soul.😍"
This was…RT @Aslanthe4eared1: So much cuteness for a #Caturday ... I just can’t with these two...  🥺😍Must Watch!  #CatsOfTwitter #dogsoftwitter #dog…RT @Berti_and_Ernie: The sun is shining and I have a wonderful time with my human. That's how a doglife should be!!
#dogsarelove #dogs http…RT @ILoveanimalslol: Our angels want to say:
"Happy #Easter #friends, we hope you all peath &amp; Happineth, and we athk you to make it thpethia…RT @joyxande: JOY XANDE IS NOW LIVE ON ALL STREAMING PLATFORMS! 🦩✨                                              #inspiration #motivation #t…RT @AdoptionsUk: TEAR JERKER please retweet, urgent FOSTER HOME wanted for Zak #BERKSHIRE "
"Affectionate Rottweiler aged 9, looking for adul…#branding #information #emotions #mind #life #learning #profmsrao #motivationalvideo #motivationalspeech #marketing… https://t.co/cjKKcKRzP9RT @ILoveanimalslol: This #dog saved 15,000 humans  during the killer diphtheria #epidemic that rampanted on Alaska."
Palto walked 88 kilo…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jonathan find a home #SUSSEX 
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter  🍀⭐️🍀⭐️🍀How To Manifest UNLIMITED Wealth, Health And Happiness - Abundance Manifestor: https://t.co/cKovOQ1WMx"
"#Abundance… https://t.co/lbcJtO6ZStRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 Please help KUTCHER leave SEAACA alive &amp; find his forever home. He's looking for a #DogLover in So #CA to #ADOPT or…RT @ILoveanimalslol: #Humans are the #demons of this earth, and #animals are the tormented spirits... I dont mean the all humans, but I aff…RT @lesbianloc: Saturday 17th April 2021"
"8:30pm London, GMT"

#QWOCTouchingBase; monthly zoom meetup with LGBTQ queer women.

"Share music, e…RT @gsrescueelite: 2 weeks to get him out his kennel."
1 month to let us walk him.
Add a month for him to trust 1 person.
"Another month for…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 2 yo YING in #CorpusChristi #Texas is in dire need of a #DogLover to offer to #FOSTER him TODAY! Plz RT, &amp; #PLEDGE f…RT @ILoveanimalslol: When they come to you as a #refugee to you, make him well-groomed and honor his #heart. He only came to you because he…RT @harrypetsanis: ""We don't make mistakes because we're human. We make mistakes because we make poor choices and have dysfunctional mindse…RT @harrypetsanis: ""We don't make mistakes because we're human. We make mistakes because we make poor choices and have dysfunctional mindse…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 Nothing is working right for wonderful POPPIES.😥 Are you a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC who can turn her luck arou…@ChuckGafvert @Unprograms Yes! 🔥 Also related to this..."

https://t.co/b3Un7HmjsU#dmx made us lose our minds with his #music May he #rest easy!

#haiku 
#hiphop 
#life 
#poetry 
#poem
#poet… https://t.co/6m1NKufgo3RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gala find a home #Glasgow  #Scotland 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿Morning #dogs https://t.co/bLrZ578AwN@octaviaspencer @melissamccarthy 
My bestie from cooking school are #ThunderForce (chef style) #friends https://t.co/HA2B9BORFWRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…RT @SRDHAIN: Prem Rawat 

"#PremRawat #wordsofpeace #wopg #Happiness #fulfilment #joy #humanity #fun #success #BlissfulLife #existence #prac…Flower Girl Square Collar Ball Gowns https://t.co/h98pcPmw8p #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion… https://t.co/t0jppXttM8RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 2 yo YING in #CorpusChristi #Texas is in dire need of a #DogLover to offer to #FOSTER him TODAY! Plz RT, &amp; #PLEDGE f…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! "

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @ikhlaqgohar: If #love is constitution of your #life,  you will never obey intellect| Sufi Master Younus AlGohar #Quote #sundayvibes #Sp…RT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021"

"These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @mapleveewesem: __🐾💔 Friends, if you don't already do so, please check Sandra's profile regularly &amp; help share the pups @ PVAS #Texas , n…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu"

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFTry this tonic for better belly help. https://t.co/LrAiwyq586 Looking to get back in to shape check out link above… https://t.co/18uiLvrsmMRT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021

These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @ILoveanimalslol: April #Food Box funding appeal 
"Please #help us to bring food for these pretty angels (#dogs+#cats) April round, we ho…RT @ImusaAdams: Always know your way."
#Motivation 
#GhostbustersAfterlife 
#imusaadam #snapchat https://t.co/fhzAaoC9R1RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @MusingUntamed: #WritingCommunity here's some #motivation for the weekend. Let's connect and get some #writerslift to support each other…Mustn’t look at temptation biscuit 

https://t.co/XSCY3MMDLk via /r/dogpictures https://t.co/HwlJLawB9i… https://t.co/lycDGe8gRY7 months of living with our best friend - Now &amp; then. 

"https://t.co/3id9n0eioW via /r/dogpictures… https://t.co/mROnOYxW4vRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help find the owner of this hound found #TREDEGAR #WALES  #dogs #dogsoftwitter  🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿RT @Life__Quotes: Because our choices are largely based on survival. But if life is eternal, life is not a question. Neale Donald Walsch #q…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 Please help KUTCHER leave SEAACA alive &amp; find his forever home. He's looking for a #DogLover in So #CA to #ADOPT or…RT @Raymond_Norman: ""One of the best books I have ever read."" "

"The book (by @RJiltonWarner) was powerful, very moving and beautiful. "

h…#babies  Trendy Cartoon Print Cotton Underwear for Boys https://t.co/izKiJI2vYK https://t.co/r0oIbCtJ8ERT @funnydo25814387: 😍😅
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/O6BK54F2vRRT @Dave59539060: Are you sure a portrait of Bruce is hanging in hollowed Hall? Should be and soon will be if you guys help out. TzyRT @MAZTOR_SIN64: WHEN #LIFE #RECYCLES #PAST MOMENTS IN A #NEW TIME PERIOD, THEN AN OLD #DOG LOOKING AT HIS OWN #REFLECTION CAN LEARN NEW #…To be beautiful means to be yourself. You don't need to be accepted by others. You need to be yourself."

"#adlegacy… https://t.co/O3ZeoemndgRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀Limited Time Sale, $0.99, K9 Mystery Two-Book Series by award-winning author Bev Pettersen, "

GET A COPY:… https://t.co/3nLk479OudRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #Hampshire https://t.co/fXGNBIp6jCOmg so pretty...... #pets #dog #chinesecrested #life https://t.co/kCzv8yEaTWI just found out about this 😭😭😭RT @AryaTheElkhound: Big stretchies fur mes...... mummy said I'm getting a big puppy dogs. #DogsofTwittter #dogs #dogsofinstagram https://t…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @esi_lynn: Role available pls 🙏🏽
#friends https://t.co/NNP9DoaEnbRT @doglovers2020: Somepawdy pls save my bol!
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📹: insta/brian_9229 https://t.co/rnlMnZKcaXRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Tango find a home #Cambridgeshire #England 🍀RT @funnydo25814387: 😍😅
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/O6BK54F2vRRT @Flow_blume: @Bella_Ely_ @otrogoga60 @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @KarenFi51820768: Please help @FusiologyP to get this to a TV screen near you. Help them reach the general public who don’t access Faceb…RT @TheRealAndreiaD: To be beautiful means to be yourself. You don't need to be accepted by others. You need to be yourself.

#adlegacy #an…RT @19angie98: Order your very own @Positive_K_ t-shirt here click the link https://t.co/0vm1ZJVx65 ⁣
"#ootd #beautiful #instafashion #fashi…RT @TwoDogsAndAGuy: #SaturdaysareSTILLfortheboys out here in #Colorado . Had ourselves quite the hike enjoying the clear skies and warm wea…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…We be all night (1966)"

#wellness #health #fitness #healthylifestyle #selfcare #love #motivation #lifestyle #yoga… https://t.co/Ix4fgaOkMjI like a restaurant that has pics of #dogs on its walls #datenight https://t.co/rPwcgi385DRT @dogfans4: That #360 tail spin 🤣🐶
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📹: insta/minidoodlebentley https://t.co/dVaZnhhLSsRT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
"#Annescottlin #happy #video…Scatologists are experts who study feces. (aka. crap, dung, dookie, dumps, feces, excrement, etc.) @OMGFacts… https://t.co/yK8YR2o3ugRT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage"
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

"#…RT @Lauda_Lewes: Gotta say I enjoy hanging out with these real folks on real adventures - so fun to watch on https://t.co/jXXsda7DLv They'r…RT @bigdaddyGOC: Tonight Live! 9pmEST #Trending on #Facebook “The Green Room” @WWAB with Host “Avi Klein” #SocialMedia #Comedy #SocialMedia…RT @AKCHercules: Please help if you can, we did! ❤️ @nuggetsdrooling @RidleyHowell @casie190 @abby_bulldog @itsSirGustafson @Catsemail @elv…RT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021"

These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…Meditation For Beginners ($29.99 to FREE) #jucktion #body #wellness #joy #happy #fitness #health https://t.co/AFl8U5wGQORT @FoPRR: Do you #knit #crochet #quilt or #sew? Pls make something for a Navajo or Lakota baby/toddler for either of these virtual baby sh…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @thecrowdview: MRT @tim_fargo #motivation Half the lies they tell abt me aren't true. - Yogi Berra #quote #WeekendWisdom https://t.co/DZ…RT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @Flow_blume: @Bella_Ely_ @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @otrogoga60 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @Bella_Ely_: @otrogoga60 @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @lesbianloc: Saturday 17th April 2021
"8:30pm London, GMT"

#QWOCTouchingBase; monthly zoom meetup with LGBTQ queer women.

"Share music, e…Meditation Masterclass ($94.99 to FREE) #motivation #practice #happy #mentalhealth #selfhelp #jucktion #mindfulness… https://t.co/q1Ym26S07jEnjoy! 💜 Enjoy! 💜"

#happiness #love #travel #happy #life #photography #nature #beautiful #instagood #photooftheday… https://t.co/tI0yTVhgxWRT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFAm I Write? # 13 - Writing Is My Soul Purpose #amwriting #writingcommunity #quotes #passion #thoughts #moments Idea… https://t.co/II4L7hJvLART @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJApril 11th spring greetings 

#illustration #wildlifeillustration #wildlifeart #natureart #wildlife #nature #draw… https://t.co/r7Bqr38LrrRT @kforough1: She is so perfect in every way!!! How can i help?  Do pledges help promote a foster?RT @AlexiusVasko: We be all night (1966)

"#wellness #health #fitness #healthylifestyle #selfcare #love #motivation #lifestyle #yoga #beauty…RT @indesurr: MUST SEE👀🗣 The Reason Why U Ain’t Growing is Because of Mfs U Fukin, who Dicking U Down, Or Who U Riding💁🏽‍♂️ U can’t get up…RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sight again, ever.”"
#d…Knot Silver Ring https://t.co/1FiE7WiL3C #epiconetsy #designerjewelry #streetfashion #happy #etsyshop #etsyjewelry #fashionpost #giftideasRT @BroniaSawyer: April 11th spring greetings 

"#illustration #wildlifeillustration #wildlifeart #natureart #wildlife #nature #draw #applep…Patience you must have young padawan😂😂 #dogs #puppy #newdog https://t.co/XHZxD5q3oTRT @BarbsFishNChips: ❝Yummy fish &amp; chips, a great place to eat when the weather is nice❞ - Richard Bailey"

Open Daily 🇨🇦 11am - 7pm⁠​⁠⠀⁠
Ou…Sunset photos along the Ottawa River. So glad this is our backyard during #covidlockdown
#DogsofTwittter 
#dogs… https://t.co/6kMeV3bGX3RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Suzie and Murphy find a home #Edinburgh #Lothians #Scotland 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿
"'Active wee dogs' aged 12, can…RT @LadyChessington: We can all make a difference without money! 🐹🐹🐇🐕🐈‍⬛💕"

#GuineaPigs #Rabbits #Cats #Dogs #Animals #AnimalRescues #Rescue…RT @BearBertthe: I say tolerated.... Potentially feared them and even let them steal his food!
#dogsoftwitter #dogs #Dog #smileforbert ♥ ht…Self-Loathing: 5 Reasons That Can Trigger Self Hate https://t.co/uKiMMm4muq #life via @BoldskyA-Bomb - Dreams 
Available on all platforms
#dream #faith #goals #motivation #Grind #Spotify #iTunes #tidal https://t.co/5fwAelL9FlDont let some one so special for you
That they come in your dreams at night. 

"#motivationRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham""Don't let yesterday take up too much of today"" - Will Rogers"

#Motivation #Quote @BrianTracy

"More quotes: https://t.co/0u7bGiwyF6RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @AilsaForshaw: Oh, here's the other one I saw - omg, is so gorgeous! So sweet, for your sweet little baby! #Royal #Royalty #baby #babies…RT @MagdalenaMeisel: ❤️Dear Friends, I am sending you this timeless beautiful song and wish you all a romantic evening❤️"
"🎧I Will Always Lov…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 No update on PRETTY GIRL in Robstown, Nueces Co. #Texas yet this a.m. 4-10. Please continue RTs. A solid offer to #A…RT @mapleveewesem: If you would like to #ADOPT or #FOSTER PRINCE, he is best suited to an adults only home as a solo pet. To adopt, schedul…How to Take Some Decent Photos https://t.co/5wKPhhjVDA #artists #arts #authenticity #filmmaker #love #motivationRT @AilsaForshaw: Wow, I have never seen a round crib, before - that is stunning! So beautiful! #Royal #bedding #babies #crib #cribs #cot #…RT @istudybones: Dog femur stuffin' day for the pup! Homemade stuffed femurs made  w/healthy ingredients. Keeps aggressive chewers &amp; pups b…To keep your #friends treat them kindly; to kill them, treat them often. ;) #teamfollowbackRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Annie find a home #BERKSHIRE #UK "
"Lovely Akita aged 8, foodie, enjoys walks away from traffic, best…Someone will add and send a gift #PokemonGo #gift #friends #PokemonGOfriend #pokemongogift  802241362596.🖤RT @PierreHnoud: Nobody can help everyone but anyone can help somebody."

Start with the person next to you. 👫

#leadership #inspiration #st…Many #dogs were #adopted at the #beginning of the #pandemic. Where are they #one #year later?

"https://t.co/MFl9WM6MAdRT @PierreHnoud: A fool finds no pleasure in understanding or praising others, they are simply delighted in airing their opinions and criti…RT @PierreHnoud: Power and Leadership are mutually intertwined. "

"Great leaders use power as a mean to help others; Bad leaders seek power…The truth is we are like those we admire or, at the very least, we can be. "

.
https://t.co/dOv3M3H7Wv 

.… https://t.co/z5zpOBzWQkRT @Chuckbuck__: Will the servers ever be the same?
#apexlegends #apex #entrepreneurship #callofduty #trade #microsoft #amazon #playapex #e…RT @stockindie: #vintage #photos at #stockindie https://t.co/yuCPhgY421 #stockphotos #photography please check out our #exclusive gallery a…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJCheck out Jonathan Nichols's video! #TikTok https://t.co/2rQq26fnBb #yellowstone #yellowstonenationalpark #ynp… https://t.co/A3yWs6CTD5RT @tana_lith: #DechartGames  #AprilDechart art prompts day 6 - Laughter~ 
It was a crazy summer with my friends. I hope we can be together…If you keep going you won't regret it. If you give up you will.
From @AppMotivation #motivation #quote… https://t.co/iumNjZPi0KLife is fast. Make everyday fabulous. ~ Think of yourself as a priority. ~ #Life https://t.co/KmpEitqjXzLike if you are Excited! Oh Yeah 😍!
#petstraining 
#petsfeeding 
#puppy 
#cats 
#petsshop 
#dogfashion 
"#dogs… https://t.co/2qF8gOLs0hRT @RobertAlvares: ""#Happy Birtday Mr. Burns"" #musica #Parati #Simpsons #Argentina #Chile #Mexico #Peru #Bolivia #Uruguay #Paraguay #Colomb…Hey all! Here's a post you might've missed! Read about the....""7 Ways To Catch Your Partner’s Attention""… https://t.co/OiEoIsYIbpNeed a fresh mental attitude?  Try CBD oil"
Visit ➜ https://t.co/MagTVHdUsT - link in bio

#inspiration #motivation… https://t.co/oW1GtlWdIZRT @belabab: 🆘11 MARCH 2021 RUBY #ScanMe @sussex_police 
#STOLEN BY MAN IN RED PICKUP REG NO: Y425 WGJ
(SEE PHOTO) 
"Liver &amp; White English S…RT @DrJDrooghaag: 🔵 Life is too short, or too long, for me to allow myself the luxury of living it so badly. - Paulo Coelho"

"#Quote #Inspir…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @belabab: 🆘11 MARCH 2021 RUBY #ScanMe @sussex_police "
#STOLEN BY MAN IN RED PICKUP REG NO: Y425 WGJ
(SEE PHOTO) 
Liver &amp; White English S…RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021

These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…Bran and I 💙 #friends https://t.co/AbjPIDhDU7RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @gsrescueelite: Max is 5yrs old and this lad needs a home as his humans are emigrating. He is a very bright and keen lad who can live wi…Your business issues are your personal issues 100%. You can try to avoid that. You can try to shove it in the close… https://t.co/WeKk163sMFRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bruce find a home #SHROPSHIRE 

"Aged 2-5, loves food and toys, very clever, looking for an experien…🐕 Come meet #OSCAR before time runs out! #dogs He can be your best friend! #Foster ❤️ https://t.co/XZDHSR8WNn https://t.co/yRAHZNbbA2RT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7RT @Dave59539060: Are you sure a portrait of Bruce is hanging in hollowed Hall? Should be and soon will be if you guys help out. TzyHI BLU OMG YOU’RE A CUTIE 💕RT @mauriceg: You Can Succeed!"
#Friday #FridayMotivation #FridayThoughts #FridayVibes #quote #quoteoftheday #business #businessgrowth #succ…RT @makinbeatz100: 🚦🚦🚦LIVE ON APPLE🚦🚦🚦 HUMBLE @Kakea_B FEAT @380ndabuildnhoe Prod by @BLVMEbeatz  https://t.co/kFAHcXdjWs 🤧🤧🤧
.
.
.
.
.
"#be…RT @PRRHorseRescue: We have $2369.08 to go for 20 round bales &amp; 30 square bales! PRRHR is 100% donor funded. Please help if you can, we wou…RT @Dave59539060: Are you sure a portrait of Bruce is hanging in hollowed Hall? Should be and soon will be if you guys help out. TzyRandom twit #dogs #BestFriend https://t.co/CHeGeHe4OLRT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGlI love slippers! via /r/labradoodles https://t.co/JrhTmc1kP1 #labradoodle #puppy #dogs https://t.co/BsJUeULDWCRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bruce find a home #SHROPSHIRE 

"Aged 2-5, loves food and toys, very clever, looking for an experien…RT @The_Animal_Team: 🆘MISSING DINNINGTON NEWCASTLE NE13# Went #missing in fields in #Dinnington 7/4/21. https://t.co/rw6XkNMXF6 #dogs #dogs…⁦@J_E_B_1982⁩ and stop by ⁦@MattysBar⁩ for impromptu bloodys along with Jules and Maddie The Mastadors #greenhouse… https://t.co/qcvCILTXQART @The_PunAsher: Am I Write? # 13 - Writing Is My Soul Purpose #amwriting #writingcommunity #quotes #passion #thoughts #moments Ideas #cre…RT @AlexiusVasko: We be all night (1966)"

#wellness #health #fitness #healthylifestyle #selfcare #love #motivation #lifestyle #yoga #beauty…RT @FoPRR: Do you #knit #crochet #quilt or #sew? Pls make something for a Navajo or Lakota baby/toddler for either of these virtual baby sh…RT @bulldog_crazy: How cute??
#englishbulldog #dogs #Bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #puppy https://t.co/LKnnTdOxowMeet Marmaduke! He's quite an outstanding rabbit. https://t.co/IXPLvMDdsq #babies #children parenting https://t.co/8NnmsET4oURT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 Nothing is working right for wonderful POPPIES.😥 Are you a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC who can turn her luck arou…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rosie and Scamp find a home together #CountyDurham 
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter https://t.co/d9ieYmQNzQToday is #nationalpetday, so a bug shout out to all the pets out there that bring us so much joy. It’s also a day t… https://t.co/cXu4vocloaRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gala find a home #Glasgow  #Scotland 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 No update on PRETTY GIRL in Robstown, Nueces Co. #Texas yet this a.m. 4-10. Please continue RTs. A solid offer to #A…RT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
"https://t.co/HL3xKBhh0eRT @PositiVibesOrg: The reason why some people are so kind is because the world has been so unkind to them that they don't want other peopl…@BirdAppTRL OMG so THANKFUL to find this account!! #TRL was #LIFE for my generation!!I I STOPPED EVERYTHING I was d… https://t.co/Dj9uOkRqxrRT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @Flow_blume: @Bella_Ely_ @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @otrogoga60 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @Bella_Ely_: @otrogoga60 @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @Flow_blume: @Bella_Ely_ @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @otrogoga60 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @Bella_Ely_: @otrogoga60 @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @TheWinAttitude: If your mouth can't start a fire in a woman's heart, then probably you cant quench the desire in that same heart."
"#Masc…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @funnydo25814387: 😘🥰"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/N6WgMxijRTOur donations are coming together nicely for gift packages to families supported by @MadebyMomma - if you’re intere… https://t.co/zEAQS2nVrhRT @FoPRR: Do you #knit #crochet #quilt or #sew? Pls make something for a Navajo or Lakota baby/toddler for either of these virtual baby sh…WATCH NOW - Daniel Whyte III preaches ""How to Hope: Lessons from the Israelites and Their Messianic Expectation, Pa… https://t.co/5p03WrbSFVUploaded！🎊"

Road trip🚐🛣️

https://t.co/Glej5jqxfU

"#YouTube #BGM #upload #relax #subscription #music #música… https://t.co/XgtXk5JRtf“I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sight again, ever.”… https://t.co/zINYtYQXeIComfortable Breathable Sports Ankle Support"

$21.06 

" #sportsnwear #workout #activewear #motivation… https://t.co/gtdxrCyMjXRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
#dogs #dogsoftwitterDo you know anyone who is as happy as i am?

#happy #HAPPY_WOOJIN_DAY #HAPPYBIRTHDAYPAULO #happybirthdaytommyinnit… https://t.co/kYWpT1xeChRT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021

"These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of m… https://t.co/BO5i5epwKXRT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7RT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…RT @FlashJewelry: Knot Silver Ring https://t.co/1FiE7WiL3C #epiconetsy #designerjewelry #streetfashion #happy #etsyshop #etsyjewelry #fashi…RT @Melo1541: In this mad world, I'll put that video over here... hopefully, it'll bring some lights and even make you realize what truly m…RT @xvermonter61: No words needed! ❤️#Dogs #SaturdayVibes #DogsOfTwitter https://t.co/KFGcylgbEIRT @trapgoosegaming: We are doing community night right now we are playing some jack box and chatting come hangout."

"What games do you like…📷 Am I Too Old to Start Investing at 71? Dear Penny, I’m 71… #love #travel #life #lifestyle #explore… https://t.co/iHQvl2i9GKRT @esi_lynn: Role available pls 🙏🏽"
#friends https://t.co/NNP9DoaEnbRT @esi_lynn: Role available pls 🙏🏽
"#friends https://t.co/NNP9DoaEnbRT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters."
If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…Who runs the world? #extroverts or #introverts  
#life #lifestyle #StayHome #pandemic #communication #work #school… https://t.co/XDZPhONW0U@cryptodude____ Don't do that Mmmmm #LOVE #LIFERT @funnydo25814387: Perfect place for a nap
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/7pojyz83yqRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 2 yo YING in #CorpusChristi #Texas is in dire need of a #DogLover to offer to #FOSTER him TODAY! Plz RT, &amp; #PLEDGE f…RT @glsociety: WATCH NOW - Daniel Whyte III preaches ""How to Hope: Lessons from the Israelites and Their Messianic Expectation, Part 40""  |…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @SWilkingHoran: #NationalSiblingDay ~ Celebrate the differences! #SiblingsDay #dogslife #Dogs #humor https://t.co/dFlohiYbXNRT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…I LOOK FORWARD TO THIS PART THE MOST "
😵😵😵 #FFXV #FinalFantasy15 #GameComplete #Light #Emotions https://t.co/hBOFvriiteRT @barns_honey: https://t.co/6QzeR8Mf0X 
"#milf #hotmoms #stockings #lingerie  #naughty #sexy #nylons #happy #nickers come and join me 😜 ht…RT @Life__Quotes: Because our choices are largely based on survival. But if life is eternal, life is not a question. Neale Donald Walsch #q…Who loves yellow💛⬆"
👑 @beckycrockerrr 👑
#SexPorno
#Botty
#Bobs
#Love
#Life
#beautyRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀RT @Emily74586826: I normally do CashApp but drop your PayPal OR cashapp below. I wanna make someone happy today just like and retweet💚(dro…RT @Ilovemy02803780: 😍😅
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/eNmEuZLVkRRT @AnneScottlin: ❦Joy refuses to be confined by the expected and the practical... it overflows to become spontaneous and extraordinary. 
~…I may just be a little Pug...but I LOVE a good playful 
TUG OF WAR with this rope toy my owner got me a… https://t.co/eo91FccjTART @davidbombal: Success is the product of daily habits—not once-in-a-lifetime transformations.

#DailyMotivation #inspiration #motivation…RT @BroniaSawyer: April 11th spring greetings 

#illustration #wildlifeillustration #wildlifeart #natureart #wildlife #nature #draw #applep…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham
"Aged 5-7, looking for an adult home with a lot of experience of #Ge…""You CANNOT win the war against the world, if you CANNOT win the war against your own MIND."" Unknown… https://t.co/kbAhmpFxVIRT @WilfandErnie: Dad thinks we've got enough #stuffedfrens. Pfft 😤 good job Mums in charge 😂😂 #dogsoftwitter #dogs #SaturdayMotivation # h…We like to think we have full control over our #choices but until we master our minds and ourselves it's an… https://t.co/VvdGsJJBHZIs it safe to exercise for high blood pressure? https://t.co/xhfxGOff4x"
"#healthy #health #food #diet #lifestyle… https://t.co/3mA6W3H39K“How to Regain Control of Your Life with Mindfulness Meditation” https://t.co/ZrwZLn54FP meditation #peace #now #control #life #now #balance""Hannibal, kindly remove your foot from my eye""! #Kobe #chihuahua #chisquad #dogs #Dog #dogsoftwitter https://t.co/I1mDirw3soRT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 2 yo YING in #CorpusChristi #Texas is in dire need of a #DogLover to offer to #FOSTER him TODAY! Plz RT, &amp; #PLEDGE f…RT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
https://t.co/HL3xKBhh0eRT @LifeWithJohn: Life is fast. Make everyday fabulous. ~ Think of yourself as a priority. ~ #Life https://t.co/KmpEitqjXzRT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJFollow us for new posts daily! 💪🏋️💦 #fitness #motivation #gym #workout #health #diet #gymmotivation https://t.co/Kcg1XExNrDRT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…RT @FuelTheGrind: Follow us for new posts daily! 💪🏋️💦 #fitness #motivation #gym #workout #health #diet #gymmotivation https://t.co/Kcg1XExN…RT @TrainingMindful: “How to Regain Control of Your Life with Mindfulness Meditation” https://t.co/ZrwZLn54FP meditation #peace #now #contr…RT @gsrescueelite: 2 weeks to get him out his kennel.
1 month to let us walk him.
Add a month for him to trust 1 person.
"Another month for…RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sight again, ever.”"
"#d…During the breeding season, #emotions run high."
#whistpr https://t.co/17IRfUrHv0RT @joelle47019650: For love of dogs 
Please sign and share the Greyhound #Petition 

https://t.co/u4cpzdDfFy

#BanGreyhoundRacing #mickthe…I can’t wait to see Rachel Green at the reunion #Friends 💛 https://t.co/u1YNMu6dh5RT @SjCattledog: Silver 🐶 and i wish everyone a beautiful weekend 🌺.

#Husky #Huskies #husky #huskies #dogs #dogsoftwitter https://t.co/AW8…RT @funnydo25814387: 😍😅
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/O6BK54F2vRRT @mapleveewesem: @ginachron Plz RT ⬆ 
Poppies needs to find a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC to #FOSTER her STAT . Plz apply on links in…RT @10_Ilovedogs: RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sigh…RT @MaggieMayRose1: OMD! Today's abwenchur woz heckin pawsum! We's went to da wiver an I's splishy splashied in da waters for da furst time…@InsiderLife 😎 Keep Up The Great Work 😎
...................................................

"🗣… https://t.co/tlLZR7H362RT @harrypetsanis: ""Successful people get up everyday and repeat positive behaviors and actions. Unsuccessful people get up everyday and re…Empower yourself by being the most authentic person you can be. #Motivation"
#SteveandJada #ThePerfectMatch… https://t.co/bMhSXX74mfRT @mapleveewesem: @ginachron Plz RT ⬆ 
"Poppies needs to find a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC to #FOSTER her STAT . Plz apply on links in…If they didn't  bring anything to the table they shouldn't  eat #life #REALITY https://t.co/FH8KhtqbqXElegant Elastic Maternity Pencil Skirt   #fashion #life https://t.co/zkTsYjwbRg https://t.co/toTTp9jTcDOne of my favorite coaches hooked me up for my upcoming game! Let’s ball out #5280jrbuffs #hardwork #dedication… https://t.co/DaehcPIqwWRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 If you are a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC &amp; can share your home, 1 of these 4 sweet &amp; beautiful #dogs needs you to…RT @na_delce: Good morning 🤤 "
"#horny #cumshot #erection #fuck #girl #gay #milf #nudes #porn #pussy #black #females #shemale #fuckme #cummmi…@bulldog_manny remembering our buddy. #dogsoftwitter #dogs #friends https://t.co/7gMBSSeUn7RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @kforough1: She is so perfect in every way!!! How can i help?  Do pledges help promote a foster? https://t.co/FkpVy9t5uoReading about this: #Dogs - General History Of Dogs #pets #FrizeMedia - https://t.co/fPsYXrqlCL @Charlesfrize… https://t.co/B41ZqkGoGJRT @MJHayes_shifty: One of my favorite coaches hooked me up for my upcoming game! Let’s ball out #5280jrbuffs #hardwork #dedication #motiva…It's okay to be sad for sometimes after making right decision for life. "
#future_goals #life #BeyondEvil #SundayThoughts #sundayvibesRT @JadaSparks: Empower yourself by being the most authentic person you can be. #Motivation
"#SteveandJada #ThePerfectMatch #indyrealtor #Ge…https://t.co/TPKmDl43Dx Please, look at this gorgeous hoodie #inspiration #hustle #life #cuteRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @BearBertthe: '... And today I follow his footsteps and stand where greatness once stood'"

"#dogsoftwitter #dogs #Dog #smileforbert ♥ htt…Taking Control of My Life. One step at a time and doing it my way. | by Raiscara Avalon | Mar, 2021 | Medium - via… https://t.co/ad49RXanIMYou can never have enough stuffed friends, Wilf and Ernie!RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @FarahJadran: GOOD NEWS: @SyracusePolice reunite missing dog with Syracuse woman | @CNYCentral #dogs #goodnews #Syracuse"

"Aisis ran of…RT @DanBohleen: ""You CANNOT win the war against the world, if you CANNOT win the war against your own MIND."" Unknown"

#SelfImprovement #Men…RT @laura_corbeth: Identify. Accept. And realize emotions are impermanent. 
#emotions #breathe #mindfulness #MentalHealth https://t.co/HyVw…RT @ClaraHelms: Twinning with my screen sister @ameliaconway__ 

Let the sun shine through &amp; light up your life♡

On set @bonded_by_blue_fi…RT @ClaraHelms: Twinning with my screen sister @ameliaconway__ 

Let the sun shine through &amp; light up your life♡

On set @bonded_by_blue_fi…RT @Berti_and_Ernie: The sun is shining and I have a wonderful time with my human. That's how a doglife should be!!
#dogsarelove #dogs http…RT @Inkologyarts: Don't be distracted.... 
#quote #quotes #illustration #illustrationoftheday #illustrations #life #lifelesson #quotestoliv…RT @AdoptionsUk: Urgent retweet please to help Jessica find a home #BRIDGEND #WALES 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿
"AGED 14 Looking for a quiet home ok with childr…RT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
https://t.co/HL3xKBhh0eRT @FoPRR: Do you #knit #crochet #quilt or #sew? Pls make something for a Navajo or Lakota baby/toddler for either of these virtual baby sh…RT @Inkologyarts: be the light or the mirror 
#quote #quotes #illustration #illustrationoftheday #illustrations #life #lifelesson #quotesto…RT @ClaraHelms: A Beautiful Family #Halloween #HouseWarming.

"Don't walk in front of me; I may not follow. 
Just walk beside me and be my…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @harrypetsanis: We weren't created to please everyone, serve everyone, take advice from everyone, and live in a manner that benefits ev…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham"
"Aged 5-7, looking for an adult home with a lot of experience of #Ge…RT @danishabhaloo: Our donations are coming together nicely for gift packages to families supported by @MadebyMomma - if you’re interested…RT @IqbalRajaGB: @irvinejulie @_Jenzy__ @italianostyle2 @ganseykid @ginaaaa345 @vilaandrealili1 @Leiluna9 @MarEthr @LuisMiguelClav1 @gamer_…RT @Mijopets: Competition Time!"
Follow us on Twitter &amp; retweet to enter our social media competition draw to win a FREE Personalised Pamper…RT @Charlesfrize: Reading about this: #Dogs - General History Of Dogs #pets #FrizeMedia - https://t.co/fPsYXrqlCL @Charlesfrize #ContentMar…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Doris (Doll) find a home #ESSEX 
"Lovely Shih Tzu aged 2-5, could live with older teens or adults an…RT @FoPRR: Do you #knit #crochet #quilt or #sew? Pls make something for a Navajo or Lakota baby/toddler for either of these virtual baby sh…I'm now streaming on Twitch! Playing VALORANT https://t.co/1LiUMyfPqq #twitch #twitchtv #gamers #game #videogame… https://t.co/HxEtzz2SsmOrder your very own Positive K t-shirt here https://t.co/rSvyb4oYV9"
"I have permission to use this song for promotio… https://t.co/OYn5Q8ifZTFew days have past, and honestly I’m still not over it 😭😂 "

The feels- #FFXV #FinalFantasy15 #EmotionsRT @cheetahboy3000: I'm now streaming on Twitch! Playing VALORANT https://t.co/1LiUMyfPqq #twitch #twitchtv #gamers #game #videogame #strea…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @The_Animal_Team: 🆘MISSING DINNINGTON NEWCASTLE NE13# Went #missing in fields in #Dinnington 7/4/21. https://t.co/rw6XkNMXF6 #dogs #dogs…WOW

" #love #friends #fun#happy https://t.co/74lwduGNERRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…#Life is short. Do not wait to #reconcile yourself with your neighbor, express #gratitude for a favor, or sing… https://t.co/tfARErEmXuWater is life"
Agua es vida

#water #life #relax #naturelovers #Vida  #naturaleza https://t.co/6gIzan8TjLRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀Life becomes easier when you learn to accept the apology you never got. #yknotmentality #growthmindset #forthekids… https://t.co/lBgWkHK2KKYes. i’ve made mistakes. Life doesn’t come with instructions. you just live and learn… #motivationRT @SaintLeumas: Hey Everybody! Here's the verse of the day:

"Fearing people is a dangerous trap, but trusting the Lord means safety. - P…RT @daisy_pom: Friends, I got the most gorgeous bandana in the mail from my bichon pal, Poppy in Scotland! I love it! And it’s from our fri…@AdamSandler how about a #HappyGilmore sequel featuring #Happy and #Shooter facing off in the #SeniorPGA? "
See what… https://t.co/YLrihoqvlMRT @snowfoxgabs: 700 Followers on Instagram thank you so so much ♥

#art #pixel #pixelartist #pixelart #rubberhose #instagram #under5k #art…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rocco find a home #MANCHESTER 
"Aged 2-5, active and looking for an adult home where he can enjoy lo…RT @MaryJoe38642126: .@PeacePalaceKH #HunSen"

#EnactEnforce #Laws #Banning #DogMeatTrade In #Cambodia 🙏🏽

#Dogs Are #Tortured 

"The #DogMea…RT @PolishRoyalGoat: @Wewillrocku66 @1hTkMJaMalfwQZS @marvil296 @Eagleeye47 @Alexa17101614 @Jimmysimmonds1 @663Renegade @RUL_for_friends @K…https://t.co/REyDKRHpid    Come see my OF ❤️ #sex #love #sexy #like #follow #hot #gay #bhfyp #sexshop #memes… https://t.co/g6xlHRu0AeRT @PolishRoyalGoat: @1hTkMJaMalfwQZS @marvil296 @maryrhoton @Eagleeye47 @Alexa17101614 @Jimmysimmonds1 @663Renegade @RUL_for_friends @Kira…RT @PolishRoyalGoat: @Lunarteddy @fJnRDcc4ZQxs @arshadk90774920 @Carlaxa63784237 @SUDEBBI88994521 @Samanta33533076 @Shahedhadll @TheLadyDya…RT @Marlene59165254: Please everyone can you retweet and let’s find sweet adorable Nessy the wonderful home she deserves....isn’t she just…RT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT __ https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3Children summer garden sandals girl boy beach slippers shoes for kids candy color hole baby shoes breathable non-sl… https://t.co/hbSsQ46Mc4Never leave a friend behind. Friends are all we have to get us through this life—and they are the only things from th #friends #friendshipsIt is in your moment of decision that your destiny is shaped | #quote #motivation #inspire #lifecoach https://t.co/KehD1M64NNRT @PolishRoyalGoat: @PattiBrookd @SusanRizzo12 @Guyatt671 @scouse_kim @TheLadyDyan @WomanMother1 @19marino74 @ManishP60508798 @DJBlackzito…RT @PolishRoyalGoat: @PattiBrookd @Guyatt671 @scouse_kim @TheLadyDyan @WomanMother1 @19marino74 @ManishP60508798 @DJBlackzitoun @fJnRDcc4ZQ…RT @mapleveewesem: If you would like to #ADOPT or #FOSTER PRINCE, he is best suited to an adults only home as a solo pet. To adopt, schedul…RT @lgibson12397: #5things i was grateful for today"

1 a blue sky and sunshine day☀️
2 my first cuppa☕
3 family and friends🤗💗
"4 #HappyBirth…RT @AnimalsSerious: Please, Texas 🙏 don’t let her extensions go to waste 🙏 please someone save this amazing girl 🙏‼️‼️‼️ ASAP ‼️‼️‼️👇👇👇👇👇👇👇…Winter has returned briefly. Flakes the size of quarters! "

Atlas loved it! 

"We have about 1-2 cm in summerside.… https://t.co/HFwITVxwZLRT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham"
"Aged 5-7, looking for an adult home with a lot of experience of #Ge…RT @AmayaCarrascoT1: Water is life"
Agua es vida

"#water #life #relax #naturelovers #Vida  #naturaleza https://t.co/6gIzan8TjLUh, this is life "
This is what I know 
So to me this is life 
One more road to cross 
One more risk to take 
"Gotta… https://t.co/OPXOqehaN2Fun afternoon at @tbkmiamiwest cooking class, thank you my MDD @lllsequeira ❤️😁🍷 #friends #havingfun #drinkandcook… https://t.co/3EHjWhsy8PRT @SjCattledog: Silver 🐶 and i wish everyone a beautiful weekend 🌺."

#Husky #Huskies #husky #huskies #dogs #dogsoftwitter https://t.co/AW8…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…🏌️💪Do what is right... do it with honesty and vigor. Be creative - that's important. Don't follow what other people… https://t.co/enoGU8kBcMRT @djjsworld: Our #Life is an outcome of our own #Karmas. Know the way to free yourself from the force of these Karmic influences;

READ t…RT @GoodVetPetGuide: Do you miss having a #dog in your life? Would you love to have a dog but you're unable to commit 100%? Join @PetStayne…Get my free ebook Self-Care and Balance for Codependents. https://t.co/V05ZbV4dsF 
" #codependent #Melodybeatty… https://t.co/preHzQhM8c101 Dog Tricks: Step by Step Activities to Engage, Challenge, and Bond with Your Dog https://t.co/XDN5f3W4cq #puppy #dogtraining #dogsRT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu"

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

"#…Like it ? Tweet it, Shop It  Rose Sleeveless Bodysuit https://t.co/bXuhmGn5fD #fitgirls #fitness #fitnessmotivation… https://t.co/O5LMO1jZ5zThe beautiful sights and sounds at the beach in Santa Monica ☀️🌊🌴❤️"
.
#beach #santamonica #socal #sun #saturday… https://t.co/GAhxkAu48GRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rocco find a home #MANCHESTER 
"Aged 2-5, active and looking for an adult home where he can enjoy lo…RT @xvermonter61: No words needed! ❤️#Dogs #SaturdayVibes #DogsOfTwitter https://t.co/KFGcylgbEIRT @MardiEdge: People inspire you, or they drain you- pick them wisely...🌼🌺🌼.#actorslife #thoughts #life https://t.co/BaALOAONwDRT @ILoveanimalslol: When they come to you as a #refugee to you, make him well-groomed and honor his #heart. He only came to you because he…RT @MardiEdge: Morning Twitter world from Sorrento, Melbourne.. touch of Sorrento Sunshine on my face yesterday.. just beautiful and the se…RT @daisy_pom: Friends, I got the most gorgeous bandana in the mail from my bichon pal, Poppy in Scotland! I love it! And it’s from our fri…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu"

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQF~ intellectual drift &amp; strength in sensitivity ~

"#ico #ethereum #crypto #crowdfunding #medicaid #blackhistorymonth… https://t.co/e5W9tCINdDHappy birthday, Bobo! You don’t look a day over 12 🐕😉 "

#dogsoftwitter #dogsRT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…Hmmmmm. Message?   Code??? Great sense of humor??? 💙💙.     https://t.co/FC16i1Ec6J.   #strength #leadership… https://t.co/CnBWI4gv7ORT @RidyardColin: Hug a #baby #elephant and make his day; buy his book &amp; make #friends for life
https://t.co/BkRHF07WEV
"#GrowingReaders #Ch…We are the cosmos made conscious and life is the means by which the universe understands itself. - Brian Cox… https://t.co/YakEJK804tRT @MardiEdge: People inspire you, or they drain you- pick them wisely...🌼🌺🌼.#actorslife #thoughts #life https://t.co/BaALOAONwDRT @ckwlpn: #reusable #Bowl #Lids #ecofriendly #dogs #handmade #etsy Covers https://t.co/ub1rLew52M via @EtsyRT @esi_lynn: Role available pls 🙏🏽"
"#friends https://t.co/NNP9DoaEnbRT @thistleflat: #GoodMorning #UKGiftHour! Hope you're all feeling good today, but just in case you need a bit of #Motivation ❤️"
https://t.…Stop procrastinating that project. https://t.co/5bVKuTtkTY #motivation #procrastination #life #balance
" #BlogReading about this: #Dogs - Newfoundland Are Aristocrat Among Canine #pets #FrizeMedia - https://t.co/7OM7fWYe0B… https://t.co/7BgR5YdHj2Road to paradise is never easy , never been so grateful coz I get to call this place Home."
#Happy #blessed… https://t.co/6Yz75Wu7DSRT @esi_lynn: Role available pls 🙏🏽
"#friends https://t.co/NNP9DoaEnbRT @AnujJoshi92: Tip for today. Not everything grows at 37 degree C. Some things grow inside the fridge at 4 degree :D #happy #microbiology…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀RT @randallrex: Maybe you are searching among the branches, for what only appears in the roots."
#NAME?
"From @AppMotivation #motivation #quot…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 Nothing is working right for wonderful POPPIES.😥 Are you a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC who can turn her luck arou…This could be most important thing you learn today. The very essence of happiness, at your finger tips. A beautiful… https://t.co/9nPPzGTDszRT @glsociety: WATCH NOW - Daniel Whyte III preaches ""How to Hope: Lessons from the Israelites and Their Messianic Expectation, Part 40""  |…RT @WhySportsPod: Ep. 25 - Jake Lovisolo, Product Sales Specialist, Cisco systems. Full Episode https://t.co/p0iI1cI0Zy"

"You don't necessa…RT @nyshelterpets: 🐕 Come meet #OSCAR before time runs out! #dogs He can be your best friend! #Foster ❤️ https://t.co/XZDHSR8WNn https://t.…Luv yourself 💛 you are worth it. You will see 💯
#ponyboi #motivation #eyecandy #muscle #eyecandy https://t.co/8xcUcsKXICRT @MBackton: Studying and managing the binary option.100% guaranteed fast and cash ..

#enterpreneur #success #business #motivation #milli…RT @ILovemy58919370: RT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
https:/…RT @reid_jareau: I'M FINE #friends https://t.co/lJOI8D0DXHThank you, dearest @tabithawatkins !! #theinterims #MissyCrider #bookstagrammer #bestseller #balboapress #life… https://t.co/vi4WszIBB1RT @Archie_AlfieCav: Morning, thank you for all your love &amp;  prayers yesterday ❤️ Alfie is continuing to get plenty of sleep (Mum is not 🥰)…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀https://t.co/uG3MoMhIBj Ajay Bakshi (Metamorphosis) – Business Sight’s 10 Most Influential Business Leaders in 2021… https://t.co/E5zDc1shiAMarley loves playing fetch and today he found #TheMasters2021. #golf, #GoldenRetriever, #MarleyTuffGong, #dogs,… https://t.co/tASBvmqpU3Free lancers are enjoyable!RT @animal_AFOT: Dinah found in agony with a broken leg had surgery but it went wrong and is now awaiting surgery but she’s hoping for her…HEALTHY AND FITNESS: 9 Most Basic Types of First Aid You Must Master https://t.co/EpoWm7YARC #tagfire #lifestyle… https://t.co/fQRIxEoEpkRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Tango find a home #Cambridgeshire #England 🍀RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @SjCattledog: Silver 🐶 and i wish everyone a beautiful weekend 🌺.

#Husky #Huskies #husky #huskies #dogs #dogsoftwitter https://t.co/AW8…RT @daily__swap: https://t.co/KlSNs3RpGc

https://t.co/UAt9LXSQ30

#Happy Trading

#Daily #DailyS #Dailyswap #BNB #BSC https://t.co/X5v4OYg…RT @AnimalsSerious: Please, Texas 🙏 don’t let her extensions go to waste 🙏 please someone save this amazing girl 🙏‼️‼️‼️ ASAP ‼️‼️‼️👇👇👇👇__👇👇…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @joyjellybeans: My work colleague lost her Labrador 2 weeks ago in the Wicklow mountains. A couple found her and saved her life. They ma…RT @doglovers2020: 😍👀
#dogs #dogsoftwitter 
📹: insta/molly_theblondie https://t.co/H7H9GQV2IURT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham
Aged 5-7, looking for an adult home with a lot of experience of #Ge…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @Hanker_Doo: I’m not crying... those sure are good humans! They deserve many treatos. 🍖RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Obi find a home #LIVERPOOL     
#dogs #dogsoftwitterIt's just a matter of time family. 

WISDOM TO THE PEOPLE 🌋💪🌳🌋

Follow @volcanicwisdom 💪🌳🌋💪

🌳🌋 #VolcanicWisdom… https://t.co/hoUdUrXJ7TRT @birdwriter7: #Readabooktogether #familytime #sharing #kindness #friiends #family #growingreaders #emotions #love #kindness #togethernes…RT @kelleypuma: We live you #Friends https://t.co/R70DdTvvvfLmao @ Moon: #EMOTIONS 
As if my #Pisces Sun isn’t emotional enough 😅🙃 #LibraMoon https://t.co/Zgl4479v1A♪♫ #Art and life work together mutually. I've always tried to approach my #life as an artist, trying to create bea… https://t.co/60qWWjnIIwRT @BearBertthe: Bert was tolerant of the kitties and they trusted his good nature... Glad to see them beginning to trust the puppy ♥"
#dogs…I don't understand this cop hating bit. Some of my bestest buddies are cops. 
Rexo - Wayne County Sheriff… https://t.co/ZjWk2aGW8BRT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
"📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…RT @GymFlash11: In search of a workout partner for private sessions... 😉 😍 Submit your own Gym Selfies via DM's &gt;&gt; @GymFlash11 📩 #gym #fitn…At 14, Daisy doesn’t walk as fast as she used to. Usually a slow pace with lots of sniff/rest breaks...except when… https://t.co/lcBfElX763Thx B unto God 4 wisdom. Proverbs 31. I ❤️inspiring N teaching others. I feel empowered! Thanks U know who U R ❤️… https://t.co/7ggK2gB9ZaStill I Rise"
https://t.co/Me9KBLVrWj

"#motivation #lifelessons https://t.co/3wKaZV7eD1RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Fergal, Cody, Teddy and other dogs find home #Ballymena  #NorthernIreland  "
#dogs #dogsoftwitterWright On Network: Episode 121: The Doll and The One Where Eddie Moves In: https://t.co/ZajVb52JpC @april5k &amp; A.J.… https://t.co/D6CuQ9SenHRT @LeslieMusoko: The House of Abba by Leslie Musoko https://t.co/yn5PHxZeur via
@amazon
#Books #Reading #NewYork #London #ThrowbackThursda…RT @MaryJoe38642126: .@PeacePalaceKH #HunSen

#EnactEnforce #Laws #Banning #DogMeatTrade In #Cambodia 🙏🏽

#Dogs Are #Tortured 

The #DogMea…RT @LeslieMusoko: The House of Abba by Leslie Musoko https://t.co/yn5PHxZeur  via
@amazon
#Books #Reading #NewYork #London #ThrowbackThursd…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gala find a home #Glasgow  #Scotland 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bruce find a home #SHROPSHIRE 
#dogs #dogsoftwitter  #Saturdayhttps://t.co/fjqEDivNen
The world of Cuban tobacco
.
TRINIDAD La trova LCDH
.
"#cigars #cigar #habanos #china… https://t.co/JYP1ETiHrRJesus said - Do you want to be made well? Rise, take up your bed and walk…And immediately the man was made well, to… https://t.co/fBzBSdSe4JDon't look for someone that will fix everything for you. Look for someone that will stay with you while you fix you… https://t.co/qETnzPGXQiLove yourself first and everything else falls into line."

#motivation
#jonjonsantosCongrats to Cherry Santos for providing us with this week's punny caption for our Meme Monday!

Tune in this coming… https://t.co/QJY9kUaigtQuote: Amelia Earhart

Photo by Joe Caione on Unsplash (https://t.co/cGHaDVAZNi)

#Motivation #SaturdayMotivation https://t.co/dEuBZMZuSP“Today you are you! That is truer than true! There is no one alive who is you-er than you!” — Dr. Seuss
#motivation… https://t.co/cjEpgW3Vy9RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 Please help KUTCHER leave SEAACA alive &amp; find his forever home. He's looking for a #DogLover in So #CA to #ADOPT or…💰💰💰Earn #Crypto Together
Earn up to 40% commission every time #your #friends make a #trade on #Binance. 🔥🔥🔥… https://t.co/exAYKo0hH1WARMING UP :
- 3.2 minutes of steps
- Warm up your ankles for 1 minute.

PROGRAM :
- 5 squat jumps 4 sets.
- 6 hops… https://t.co/86ZJe1nf0rRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gil find a home #Carmarthenshire #Wales 🍀RT @bikalshrestha_: Most great people have attained their greatest success just one step beyond their greatest failure.   -Napoleon Hill 
#…RT @bikalshrestha_: Most great people have attained their greatest success just one step beyond their greatest failure.   -Napoleon Hill 
"#…“When we are #motivated by goals that have #deep meaning, by #dreams that need completion, by pure #love that needs… https://t.co/fD0z8XWj3ZRT @AmayaCarrascoT1: Water is life"
Agua es vida

#water #life #relax #naturelovers #Vida  #naturaleza https://t.co/6gIzan8TjLRT @gsrescueelite: 2 weeks to get him out his kennel.
1 month to let us walk him.
Add a month for him to trust 1 person.
Another month for…#dogs #canine #cbdoil #cbd #cbdfordogs #dogscancer
Receiving a diagnosis that your dog has a tumor can be a heartbr… https://t.co/07DClIWq58RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾"
"#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…Can you answer this? Can dogs get bored of a walk? https://t.co/zRngQ6hRjD #dogsJeff Bulington says, in order to deal with the pressures of winning, one must redefine what counts as success. Tune… https://t.co/WgRCvDJDcKRT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗"
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…60 years and I in a bank account

"#opportunity #business #motivation #success #entrepreneur #goals #love… https://t.co/e8yq0IhBaOI am ready, are you?  LFG! "

"#payments #fintech #businesstips #startup #entrepreneur #motivation #dailymotivation… https://t.co/QQwwHBxmSuWalk with the #Dreamers.. #JoyTrain #SuccessTRAIN #Joy #Motivation  RT @spencerrayner @10MillionMiler https://t.co/ue6orQuaFHRT @patypixie: https://t.co/TPKmDl43Dx Please, look at this gorgeous hoodie #inspiration #hustle #life #cuteRT @oceanne62869949: https://t.co/REyDKRHpid    Come see my OF ❤️ #sex #love #sexy #like #follow #hot #gay #bhfyp #sexshop #memes #sextoys…RT @Cathy_B__: After Workout !!!"
#fitnessgirl #PowerYourDreams #lifestyle #emotions #gostronger #silicone #1050cc #hotpants #pinkbimbo #imp…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Hulk find a home #Accrington ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️#live#life. “I live for him” https://t.co/9zZnW7k8APRT @AryaTheElkhound: Big stretchies fur mes...... mummy said I'm getting a big puppy dogs. #DogsofTwittter #dogs #dogsofinstagram https://t…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFDiet For Breastfeeding Mothers To Increase Milk: BEST FOOD FOR NEW MOMS
https://t.co/6TKW1CwNT5
#tagfire #lifestyle… https://t.co/YdxvDg5nIYRT @GrandpaSpectrum: Hi Respected  #Friends 
Hello  #TweeterWorld 
My  #photograghy 👇
"Good Evening , Welcome To My  New  A/c"
The  Happiest…#happy #streetstyle #moda Stylish Universal Wireless Quick Charger for Phones https://t.co/qRIontIHyb https://t.co/BX8wV91JlZThe resemblance is uncanny. lol 
#videogame #gaming #gamer #game #games #xbox #onlinegaming #gamers #gaminglife… https://t.co/CFjdGSfIWmDrop a ⁠❤️ below for @nicoeverafter | ig

Tap link in bio for best pet supply deals &lt;&gt; https://t.co/WuVGJa9nhq… https://t.co/jOvfxf8m8vWords of investing wisdom from Warren Buffett himself. 👏    
                                   ⁠
 #wealth… https://t.co/GsHPieTGw7Uplift yourself by uplifting others.

#inspirational #inspirationalquotes #quote #quotes #motivation #inspiration… https://t.co/uq1mjza4ecRT @isaacmaweu: 4 NEVERS  that you should never forget in #life #IsaacTheGreat #ThinkBigSundayWithMarsha https://t.co/tP8Y0EYeNKBeautiful 😍RT @K9Loveofficial: Hug your doggos today because it’s #NationalHugYourDogDay !! 🤗🤗 

#NationalSiblingsDay #dog #dogs #dogsofTwitter #catso…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Obi find a home #LIVERPOOL     
#dogs #dogsoftwitterIf you want to LIVE LONGER &amp; HEALTHIER!  Stress is harmful to your Health. This new Kindle eBook by E. B. Warren wi… https://t.co/cd8GMaRnCQRT @VsPhils: [Productivity Software]
"Even in this pandemic, we still need to be productive. "
https://t.co/fCymESyF1X

#entrepreneur #busine…RT @MischiefAndFun: You never lose Friends.
Real ones will always stay - no matter what
"and the fakes, you don't need anyways."
"#Friends #To…RT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7RT @Raymond_Norman: ""One of the best books I have ever read."" "

"The book (by @RJiltonWarner) was powerful, very moving and beautiful. "

h…RT @Arts_42: Some photos of my exhibit this month.  #Art #Gratitude 🙏🏻 #Love❤️ #Friends ❤️ #StaySafe 😷
❤️☘️🐥❤️✨🌟🌺🌸🎼🙏🏻 https://t.co/fKLi4Gbi…Decide your Future! 🚨Follow us @profit_stack⁣⁣⁣
⁣⁣⁣
For Brand Names and Logo Inspiration follow @brandotive⁣⁣⁣
⁣⁣⁣… https://t.co/oBtjYfR0lqSee The Good. 

https://t.co/8BDXWofFml

#LiJacobsllc #lifestylebrand #linkinbio #lifestylestore #quoteofthedat… https://t.co/x5kZmvJzj7RT @gsrescueelite: 2 weeks to get him out his kennel.
1 month to let us walk him.
Add a month for him to trust 1 person.
"Another month for…https://t.co/mKUGxooHvx Great #giftideas for #weddings #events #promotions #sucess #birthdays #housewarmings… https://t.co/1ELTuBXYWXRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham🏌️💪Do what is right... do it with honesty and vigor. Be creative - that's important. Don't follow what other people… https://t.co/RqfcRhqLdtRT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3Congrats @HabNickiLeah 💓2 weeks holding the #1 spot for #Motivation &amp; now Billboards artist of the week 🙏🏼 Hard wor… https://t.co/P6ok2blEPhRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters."
"If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…RT @carlaacarlson: Take all #risks, use all #opportunities, &amp; face all #fears. #Motivation #ThinkBIGSundayWithMarsha https://t.co/XDfl4hs0bSManny loved pizza.He was adorable..🙏💔😢🌈RT @_AnimalAdvocate: All #dogs are instinctively heroes🐶💖"
Saving lives is just what they do🤗
Now it's our turn🙏

Sign to #BanGreyhoundRacin…We are live! Outriders til 10pm EST! 

https://t.co/Q3N84CKs3R

#smallstreamer #streamer #LetsPlay #seeyousoon… https://t.co/NKk9n1yMfHRT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFPerseverance can take you further! Only trust the Lord in the process. 🌻

"READ THE FULL BLOG HERE! ♥️… https://t.co/tANoGRTpA7Well-known quotes to invigorate your day #Quotes: ""Things work out best for those who make the best of how things w… https://t.co/y26Eu6TuyPRT @IWCTUK: Happy Saturday 💚💙"
"#saturday #dogsoftwitter #dogs #cute https://t.co/jREmmbNnnRAs soon as laws are necessary for men, they are no longer fit for freedom. - Pythagorus #inspiration #motivation #quote@KamalPr94877496"

 we no longer live life. 
 we consume it.
.
.
.
#life
#FridayThoughts 
#QueenElizabeth 
#Change… https://t.co/62qCZHBf4rLet life surprise you. 🌿
"#motivation #plants #homalomenavariegata (not for sale) https://t.co/zoCRvYAxhQRT @FinnHarperXXX: student apartment with a Czech hunter ...🙈🔥 #boy #gay #gaypublic #twink #porn #rt #czechboy #erotic #czechhunter #Abs #l…RT @nyshelterpets: 🐕 Come meet #OSCAR before time runs out! #dogs He can be your best friend! #Foster ❤️ https://t.co/XZDHSR8WNn https://t.…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu"

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @maddiemax48: #MissingDog #stolen #bucks #dogs not mine, please see poster for details #RT 🐶 https://t.co/NfW50ZORH3RT @USArmy: The week is almost done! "

Time for some step-by-step #motivation!!

"What's your favorite 🎶 cadence 🎵 ? https://t.co/XcAGklWJt8""I vowed I wouldn’t get married until someone gave me one good reason to. No one ever did - but I got married anywa… https://t.co/XHkTqil9CoRT @TheTwinPowers: The truth is we are like those we admire or, at the very least, we can be. "

.
https://t.co/dOv3M3H7Wv 

.

"#BeYourBest…Masters competitor Billy Horschel takes tumble near green, stains white pants"
https://t.co/raevAmCVcs
#sports… https://t.co/rbvHncY4fnRT @Prettyboi2021: My Covid Project is coming along! #art #11thHour #chucky #goodguys #goodguysdoll #friends #friendstilltheend #fanart #36…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…RT @xvermonter61: No words needed! ❤️#Dogs #SaturdayVibes #DogsOfTwitter https://t.co/KFGcylgbEIRT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗"
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7Perseverance can take you further! Only trust the Lord in the process. 🌻

READ THE FULL BLOG HERE! ♥️… https://t.co/IJkSRmIAPKRT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…Wild and Free 
Enter The Lake Tahoe Gallery 
Art for sale 
https://t.co/yoYwIBeZG4 
#Prints #Canvas #Totes #Puzzles… https://t.co/2SXXjcfniL#onlineshop #bag #happy King Queen Twin size 100%Goose Down Soft Duvet https://t.co/MSq7DMevGSRT @kimpetersen_: Why Are We Killing Strangers? via @L0LPub on @Medium | #Culture #Self #Life #Compassion #People
"https://t.co/LbQXJHCtOWRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…Limited Time Sale, $0.99, K9 Mystery Two-Book Series by award-winning author Bev Pettersen, "

"GET A COPY:… https://t.co/snHwwg4lrEStressing about your children during #COVID19?  Affection and warmth lead to positive outcomes for children:… https://t.co/V2avTAMywMHas the pandemic brought a baby boom, or a baby bust?"

Head on over to the Feminists for Liberty YouTube channel to… https://t.co/0HM8pyPUQiMatthew Perry Reveals #Friends Reunion Filming in Now-Deleted IG Pic  https://t.co/wGb1guAjxqRT @_AnimalAdvocate: This petition to #BanGreyhoundRacing is in a race to the finish!🤯

"If you love #dogs, please sign NOW🐶💔 "

✒️https://t.…I FOLLOW BACK EVERYONE!👍👍👍👍👍💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯 #PHOTOS #BEAUTIFULWOMEN #ART #RETWEET #TONIFOLLOWBACK… https://t.co/At9WHV6ndORT @JadisMilan: Congrats @HabNickiLeah 💓2 weeks holding the #1 spot for #Motivation &amp; now Billboards artist of the week 🙏🏼 Hard work pays o…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurham
"Aged 5-7, looking for an adult home with a lot of experience of #Ge…""I am the captain of my soul."""
"#quote #quotes #inspiration #motivation #true #quoteofthedayRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @Charlesfrize: Reading about this: #Dogs - Newfoundland Are Aristocrat Among Canine #pets #FrizeMedia - https://t.co/7OM7fWYe0B @Charles…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: All #dogs are instinctively heroes🐶💖"
Saving lives is just what they do🤗
Now it's our turn🙏

Sign to #BanGreyhoundRacin…Friends trip
.
.
.
.
.
#ElPrimeroDeMuchos #mexico #Friends #happymoments #Mom https://t.co/NeyQHdfs0kHow do y’all deal with what life throws at me😣#life #Falz #estherRT @esi_lynn: Role available pls 🙏🏽
#friends https://t.co/NNP9DoaEnbRT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGl📹 Hi friends.. I hope that you are having a fun day on this beautiful weekend! Saturdays are truly sensational! Liv… https://t.co/ogrjhOlgdV#Emotions are the Oceans we carry inside us,their tides sweep in according to the pull of the moon as its hypnotic… https://t.co/yI0vCkih1f#SistahsReading #QWOC zooming "
18:30 GMT Wed 5 May #TranscendentKingdom #YaaGyasi

👉🏼 https://t.co/c46HeS7FP6… https://t.co/FYGSY7yYBERT @eldiablo0786: Put the past behind. Move forward one inspired step at a time.

via @Inspireu2Action 

#ThinkBIGSundayWithMarsha 
"#Inspir…Addictions don’t have a chance man. #RobbinsOlsteen people on SSD sitting at home on drugs motivated to let them ri… https://t.co/1rblnyQsEURT @Supportegy1: “If opening your eyes, or getting out of bed, or holding a spoon, or combing your hair is the daunting Mount Everest you c…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @texastwins2004: #cindyism #quotes #media #commonsense #wisdom #motivation #lifequotes #quote ""the STRAIGHTEST tree IN the FOREST, stand…RT @qa_angus: @MaryJoe38642126 @ukincambodia @MarcoJulio @tsredshaw @PeacePalaceKH @sun_narin @BlombergMD @Reuters #Cambodia, it's time for…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage"
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

"#…RT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
"https://t.co/HL3xKBhh0e@hitRECordJoe Run my love Joe Gordon let me hunt you hold you tight so you never run away again and kiss you… https://t.co/SOb8uuBcOlRT @texastwins2004: #cindyism #failure #quotes #grateful #success #inspiration #motivation #lifequotes #selflove #quote “FAILURES are the S…Happy siblings day! My brother, my friend. Younger than me but he’s the one I call when I need advice or help. "
"Can… https://t.co/RTiwZ2z3GjLook this is such a beautiful initiative started by 22 years old Dutch student I wants to combine his business aspi… https://t.co/ob51cNt4zP4Runner Remote Start 2021 TRD PRO &amp; Limited Only https://t.co/IRZQ4Y5gJR via @YouTube #4runner #toyota4runner… https://t.co/nBzL853nAuRT @IMQuotes_Videos: Never say ""I Can't"" when it comes to something you want to accomplish."

#Motivation https://t.co/S8pYwzZFXGRT @RuralHuman: Look this is such a beautiful initiative started by 22 years old Dutch student I wants to combine his business aspirations…RT @BearBertthe: '... And today I follow his footsteps and stand where greatness once stood'

#dogsoftwitter #dogs #Dog #smileforbert ♥ htt…We must be improving everyday! 🌄

READ THE FULL BLOG HERE! ♥️
https://t.co/7EJtqgvixp

#youthtothenationsum… https://t.co/2nlGC7LXCoRT @nyshelterpets: 🐕 Come meet #OSCAR before time runs out! #dogs He can be your best friend! #Foster ❤️ https://t.co/XZDHSR8WNn https://t.…#amazon #offer #sale #angebot #oferta #Amici20 #ElClasico Madrid Messi #DesconjuracaoLet’s try to normalize WALKING BY FAITH and not by SIGHT. 👌🏾🖤

Follow my brand: @MotivateMeMerch 

👉🏾… https://t.co/bSOX9LOTSDRT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @BearBertthe: ""We'll be best friends forever won't we dad?"" asked Albert."

Even Longer said Dad.

"#dogsoftwitter #dogs #Dog #smileforb…💚 When you get home from a long day and find this at your front door!!! Thank you, friend 😘"
.
.
#grateful #thankful… https://t.co/keBBnadGFp🏌️💪Do what is right... do it with honesty and vigor. Be creative - that's important. Don't follow what other people… https://t.co/ZkbqIjm6pnRT @DrMahmood__: Doctor saves life of a child after foreign body ingestion
Look at the parents reaction 
#Doctors #life
 #Respect https://t…Call within the next ten minutes!#RadioRT @y2dnum: We must be improving everyday! 🌄

READ THE FULL BLOG HERE! ♥️
https://t.co/7EJtqgvixp

#youthtothenationsum #y2dnblog #ladder #…RT @y2dnum: Perseverance can take you further! Only trust the Lord in the process. 🌻

READ THE FULL BLOG HERE! ♥️
https://t.co/7EJtqgvixp…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…How do y’all deal with what life throws at u #life #Falz #TheVoiceNigeria #EstherRT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
"#Annescottlin #happy #video…New post: Today In Hip Hop History: A Tribe Called Quest Dropped Their Debut Album ‘The People’s Instinctive… https://t.co/wZOj2ZLR2RWe are always complaining that our days are few, and acting as though there would be no end of them.   -Seneca… https://t.co/J85Bkm9aExRT @BearBertthe: 'Albert, he is true to his word' said Bert "

Forever ♥
#dogsoftwitter #dogs #Dog #smileforbert ♥ https://t.co/UznaFSYvutRT @ddes69: Rt &amp; Follow for my nudes😇#sexy #cute #freaky #hot #cutegirl #cumtribute #girl #hornyteen #cuteteen #slut #cum #bored #single #s…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bella find a home #Manchester #DogsofTwittterRT @GauchoRusty: Belly Rubbers wanted! Great prospects for the right person. Salary is negotiable but will probably not be paid. 
#dogsoftw…Oh baby girl angelsRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @FinnHarperXXX: student apartment with a Czech hunter ...🙈🔥 #boy #gay #gaypublic #twink #porn #rt #czechboy #erotic #czechhunter #Abs #l…RT @DLStrokeSupGrp: I was thinking of the word 
" #plasticity (neuro-)  ...meaning in our #everyday #life it's about forming new ways, that…RT @amolalolo21: ..."
✧∭✧∰✧✿🌺
___________✿✧∰✧∭✧ 

𝐎𝐧𝐞
𝐰𝐡𝐨 𝐤𝐧𝐨𝐰𝐬
𝐡𝐢𝐦__𝐞𝐥𝐟

𝐢𝐬 𝐧𝐞𝐯𝐞𝐫
𝐝𝐢𝐬𝐭𝐮𝐫𝐛𝐞𝐝
𝐛𝐲

𝐰𝐡𝐚𝐭 𝐨𝐭𝐡𝐞𝐫
𝐭𝐡𝐢𝐧𝐤
𝐚𝐛𝐨𝐮𝐭 𝐡𝐢𝐦.

"___________✿✧∰✧…📷 Nice day 🤗 Caturday 😽 a beginning of a small painting 😊 #Caturday #painting #happy (at Cambridge, Maryland)… https://t.co/GglFHURdsWWhat can make my mind tell me to get out &amp; walk, when there's so much disease &amp; destruction out there?"

#Trending… https://t.co/YAGOPBmVWQRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help find the owner of this dog found #Bletchingley #Surrey 

"Found about a month ago, adult female Spri…RT @yourflsstory: 🏌️💪Do what is right... do it with honesty and vigor. Be creative - that's important. Don't follow what other people are d…RT @gsrescueelite: Madge is coming up to 2yrs old and this sweet girl does everything at 100mph and is always entertaining, she can live wi…There’s nothing wrong with me that can’t be cured with a smoothie, a crowbar, a nice brisk walk, duct tape, &amp; Twitt… https://t.co/gU6nRuMQfisucceed in your endeavors - visit https://t.co/bCbpRTb3Xs for Self Improvement information #FitnessMotivation #Life… https://t.co/xaVYEocPMRAs I reflect, I recall people and things that I once thought were cool. Some, even called others and things corny.… https://t.co/CQOS1cDUE9Always remember to take your vitamins: take your Vitamin A for ACTION, Vitamin B for Belief, Vitamin C for Confiden… https://t.co/ioEwXoA6sjGive some love &amp; you'll get much more back you idiot!"

"#Trending #quoteoftheday #PositiveVibes #comedy… https://t.co/PwFzhW9heOI FOLLOW BACK EVERYONE!👍👍👍👍👍💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯💯 #PHOTOS #TONIFOLLOWBACK #FOLLOWFORFOLLOW #FOLLOWBACK… https://t.co/TPZfei8LEDIf I had any common sense, I might be extraordinary."

"#Trending #quoteoftheday #PositiveVibes #comedy… https://t.co/ErzGwskyW6RT @PetasticPets: Just look, that`s outstanding!"
 #pets #dogs #cats #familypets #petastic #doglovers #catlovers #petlovers #dogsandcats #pe…RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
"#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @TheTwelveTails: ⚕🆘️ Please Help! Truk urgently needs an unexpected second surgery ASAP &amp; we must raise approx. $2000. He's developed 2…RT @BuffWoofer: No matter what life throws your way, keep moving forward! "

#ThinkBigSundayWithMarsha #KeepMovingForward #Motivation #Life…Mothers Day Sale! 20% OFF on your Personalized Portraits! #covid#covid19#friends#love#mothers #decor #photography… https://t.co/22cnV4yZhZRT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾
"#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…If you don't want to get high, come up &amp; see me sometime &amp; I will lower you to new heights."

#Trending #quote… https://t.co/qs6bUfsaBgRT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…RT @RoseEnglishUK: #BooksWeLove #OllyTheJack by @ChrisTurnbull20 #DogLovers check these out 📚📖
UK: https://t.co/Y2ADe1kh6m
US: https://t.co…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: All #dogs are instinctively heroes🐶💖
Saving lives is just what they do🤗
Now it's our turn🙏

"Sign to #BanGreyhoundRacin…RT @kelleypuma: We live you #Friends https://t.co/R70DdTvvvfRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Cooper find a home #LOUGHBOROUGH  #dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @daisy_pom: Friends, I got the most gorgeous bandana in the mail from my bichon pal, Poppy in Scotland! I love it! And it’s from our fri…Tweet...Tweet. I’m not living for defeat. I am still doing what they told me was not allowed."
 A little birdie told… https://t.co/wyljgxomczFlower Tops Coat https://t.co/5z6ZO1479u #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion #kids #babyshower… https://t.co/qEgj34wzSlRT @schulpaedUP: Our new publication on the relative strength of relations between different facets of teacher motivation and core dimensio…RT @jaylee6767: Happy Friday 😜😂

#bodybuilding #fitness #instafit #fitfam #bodybuilder #asianbodybuilder #motivation #muscle #biceps #trice…“Un-Fortunate Cookies”

 Don't look behind you! Walk straight out of here right now.

#Trending #quoteoftheday… https://t.co/VqkdOgjGAPRT @eddyricejr: “Un-Fortunate Cookies”

 Don't look behind you! Walk straight out of here right now.

#Trending #quoteoftheday #PositiveVib…RT @eddyricejr: Tweet...Tweet. I’m not living for defeat. I am still doing what they told me was not allowed.
" A little birdie told me some…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀Saw a commercial where a guy says he was a ""McDonalds Executive Chef."" "
Do these 2 words ever belong in a sentence.… https://t.co/UeGGWpywSART @MillieandGriff: Zoooommmm!! #dogsoftwitter #dogs Mum forgot to share this photo the other day so we've made her post it now!! https://t…RT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…I was in a vegetative state mixed up with all the wrong ingredients. 
A baby brainwashing with bad detergent from t… https://t.co/aKFwS0ZsBaRT @Alex_Verbeek: ❤️ 

"Returning to school with her new prosthetic leg. So sweet how she is greeted, hugged, accepted, and then it is time…RT @doglovers2020: 😍👀"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter 
📹: insta/molly_theblondie https://t.co/H7H9GQV2IUYOU are not the problem.

The doctrine of original sin that man created really messes with this truth.  You may mak… https://t.co/NLEBx6bvxcRT @james_powell: YOU are not the problem.

The doctrine of original sin that man created really messes with this truth.  You may make mist…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…""Reverence for life is the highest court of appeal."" Albert Schweitzer"
  
#thelifeboard #Life #quoteRT @doglovers2020: 😍👀
#dogs #dogsoftwitter 
📹: insta/molly_theblondie https://t.co/H7H9GQV2IUNo one is woke if they allow their mind to be asleep. #woke #motivation #motivational #breathe #fear #Growth… https://t.co/iKHfbBzVcSRT @mimuluxArt: oh friday i was given this awesome bouquet by an oooooold friend which i haven't seen for YEARS !! she found me again throu…There is only one thing that makes a dream impossible to achieve: the fear of failure.

#paulcoelho 
"#Motivation 🦅 https://t.co/aRS30QoRRMhad da best dae todae, stole my dads car LOL "
#smile #friendsRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @gede_prama: Inner contentment is... #Peace #gedeprama #bali #beauty #happy #healthy #holy #innerharmony #JoyTrain

"Photo courtesy: Pint…@SEAjewce @alexcutler247 @SharecareInc That’s because Alex Cutler blocked all of us. I was primarily there for the… https://t.co/eR73iCMM5LRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…Astonishment is the root of philosophy. - Paul Tillich #inspiration #motivation #quoteRT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage"
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…RT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
"If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…Let's Go Shopping At Costco! #Alaska #COSTCO #Anchorage #FamilyDay #Life... https://t.co/FcFfIqCRTv via @YouTubeRT @MBUSAEG: #Life is like a #piano.  There are white fingers, which is #happiness, and there are black fingers, which is sadness, but be s…Dinosaurs Jacket Pants Tracksuit Set https://t.co/wjJVAZWLTF #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion… https://t.co/K1xZmqndbERT @ask1angel: (#Marketing) #thoughtoftheday Name your ideal customer avatar &amp; get photo! #motivation https://t.co/68WSaf1rw3 #socialmediam…RT @ScarlettBeagle: @HeidiBearKaye1 @seasylvia2005 @rickygervais @JaneFallon ""When everyone backs a top science hearing to prove the experi…RT @Ranal55: If you are not satisfied with the options that life presents to you, find or create new options."

"#quote #options #life #creat…RT @qa_angus: @MaryJoe38642126 @CanadaCambodia @sarahjhtaylor @PeacePalaceKH @Thanathorn_FWP #Cambodia, it's time for you to demonstrate #r…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @yourflsstory: 🏌️💪Do what is right... do it with honesty and vigor. Be creative - that's important. Don't follow what other people are d…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @texastwins2004: #cindyism #failure #quotes #grateful #success #inspiration #motivation #lifequotes #selflove #quote “FAILURES are the S…RT @ask1angel: #thoughtoftheday (to self) You need to invest in yourself before investing in others #motivation #lifelonglearning #mentorti…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 2 yo YING in #CorpusChristi #Texas is in dire need of a #DogLover to offer to #FOSTER him TODAY! Plz RT, &amp; #PLEDGE f…RT @texastwins2004: #cindyism #quotes #media #commonsense #wisdom #motivation #lifequotes #quote ""the STRAIGHTEST tree IN the FOREST, stand…RT @ILovemy58919370: This is pure joy!"
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/6p8BMBXVGlRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…Note To Self."
🏃🏻‍♀️
"#CertifiedWarriorApparel #certified #motivation #success https://t.co/DKI9aX5QfGRT @derpydogdale: Fly high Frodo. We are heartbroken to see this. You brightened our days, and were such a shining light. 💔 🌈 🐾RT @labtested1: Proud gun dog vs. little cutie pie. 🤭 #dogs https://t.co/55WjH8SQz7✔️ real TALK! 👐"
PERSPECTIVE OVER EVERYTHING. 🏁
"WZDM. 💯 via @revealxcellence #repost #revealxcellence #quotes… https://t.co/JMwEW2PsY4Go Ahead And Travel, But Play It Safe by Floyd Mori via @L0LPub on @Medium | #Travel #Covid19 #Pandemic"
"#Safety… https://t.co/vlp1klNwvNRT @texastwins2004: #cindyism #quotes #media #commonsense #wisdom #motivation #lifequotes #quote ""the STRAIGHTEST tree IN the FOREST, stand…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 Please help KUTCHER leave SEAACA alive &amp; find his forever home. He's looking for a #DogLover in So #CA to #ADOPT or…RT @texastwins2004: #cindyism #failure #quotes #grateful #success #inspiration #motivation #lifequotes #selflove #quote “FAILURES are the S…Absolutely.. #changesarecoming #beginnings #life @ New York, New York https://t.co/siThcVDNYHRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 If you are a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC &amp; can share your home, 1 of these 4 sweet &amp; beautiful #dogs needs you to…RT @MaryJoe38642126: .@PeacePalaceKH #HunSen"

#EnactEnforce #Laws #Banning #DogMeatTrade In #Cambodia 🙏🏽

#Dogs Are #Tortured 

The #DogMea…This makes me HAPPY!!!
.
.
.
.
.
.
"#erinknightdesigns #jewelry #jewelrydesigner #vintage #vintagejewelry #flowers… https://t.co/lfT7e3SSCA(Marketing) #thoughtoftheday Mind map your customers whole engagement flow https://t.co/Xjo3zjk1vu #motivation… https://t.co/mmdowxCb7nRT @DannyGautama: People who walked out of your life is  not the worst thing,but probably the best thing that ever happened to you.❤️. #Sat…Cute Rabbit Cartoon 2 piece Set https://t.co/Dffu0ebD5r #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion #kids… https://t.co/eOrgd7zEuORT @Dragofix: Make the consumption of dog and cat meat illegal  https://t.co/nMjVWwEO2s #AnimalRights #dog #dogs #cat #catsRT @MontezzAllen313: Let’s try to normalize WALKING BY FAITH and not by SIGHT. 👌🏾🖤"

Follow my brand: @MotivateMeMerch 

"👉🏾 https://t.co/exn…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #HampshireRT @PatStrauss3: @MaryJoe38642126 @PeacePalaceKH @UngChamroeun @thmeythmey #Cambodia, it's time for you to demonstrate #respect for #life a…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! "

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @doglovers2020: 😍👀
#dogs #dogsoftwitter 
"📹: insta/molly_theblondie https://t.co/H7H9GQV2IUhmm today i will #tweet my #trpg with #hashtags so i may reach a larger #audience despite my #friends telling… https://t.co/sbW0YHJ43p🔥 NEW DROP // My new piece called ""ˈTHiNGkər"" is now Available at @KnownOrigin_io "

"ˈTHiNGkər… https://t.co/6u6Gx5p8DHRT @Shannon71858416: Deep in thought. Even though it’s warm, Moo loves her blankie. Patio season is officially here. 😎🐶❤️ #mypitbulliscling…RT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…Happy #Caturday! Am I doing this right? #LatteThePom #Dogs #DogsOfTwitter https://t.co/szLhtLelpTRT @Flow_blume: @Bella_Ely_ @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @otrogoga60 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @y2dnum: We must be improving everyday! 🌄"

READ THE FULL BLOG HERE! ♥️
https://t.co/7EJtqgvixp

#youthtothenationsum #y2dnblog #ladder #…RT @Bella_Ely_: @otrogoga60 @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @dogfans4: This is pure joy!
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/DoZalzpjJkRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…RT @DrToshia11: Learn to love and respect yourself first and then you can show others how to respect you.

"#blackinstem #wocinstem #minorit…RT @eddyricejr: What can make my mind tell me to get out &amp; walk, when there's so much disease &amp; destruction out there?"

#Trending #quoteoft…RT @DrToshia11: Learn to love and respect yourself first and then you can show others how to respect you.

#blackinstem #wocinstem #minorit…RT @doglovers2020: Somepawdy pls save my bol!
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
"📹: insta/brian_9229 https://t.co/rnlMnZKcaXRT @eddyricejr: There’s nothing wrong with me that can’t be cured with a smoothie, a crowbar, a nice brisk walk, duct tape, &amp; Twitter comme…RT @Dragofix: Make the consumption of dog and cat meat illegal  https://t.co/nMjVWwEO2s #AnimalRights #dog #dogs #cat #catsRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…Hi! You need MUSIC for your ENJOY? Buy NOW https://t.co/5BTLq7byms"
#followback
#funny
#music
#mpb
#friends
#love… https://t.co/7MJ12Z5CNMRT @RidyardColin: Hug a #baby #elephant and make his day; buy his book &amp; make #friends for life
https://t.co/BkRHF07WEV
#GrowingReaders #Ch…RT @eddyricejr: Give some love &amp; you'll get much more back you idiot!

#Trending #quoteoftheday #PositiveVibes #comedy #FridayMotivation #m…RT @BreakingHaHa: #BREAKING Dog can’t wait to see her owner. 🥰 #dogs #love #animals 

More vids 👉 @CatchingPlus 

" https://t.co/vFKl67OvSART @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @eddyricejr: If I had any common sense, I might be extraordinary."

#Trending #quoteoftheday #PositiveVibes #comedy #SaturdayMorning #mon…RT @The4WhoRule: Wright On Network: Episode 121: The Doll and The One Where Eddie Moves In: https://t.co/ZajVb52JpC @april5k &amp; A.J. Talk ro…RT @Dragofix: Make the consumption of dog and cat meat illegal  https://t.co/nMjVWwEO2s #AnimalRights #dog #dogs #cat #catsRT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7Note To Self.
__🏻‍♀️
#CertifiedWarrior #motivation #success #sports #fitness #health #family #wealth https://t.co/SgMDjKyUsAA Man And His God
#Spirit #Life #Love #Evil #Nature #Man #God #Beautiful #Fruitful #Tree #Curse #Bold #Courage… https://t.co/svTKxDIFL6RT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…RT @CertifiedWW: Note To Self.
🏃🏻‍♀️
#CertifiedWarrior #motivation #success #sports #fitness #health #family #wealth https://t.co/SgMDjKyUsART @bunsenbernerbmd: Every week my dad saves text messages from me to the family and on Friday he shares them.
"It’s #TextsFromBunsen !!! (A…RT @ikhlaqgohar: If #love is constitution of your #life,  you will never obey intellect| Sufi Master Younus AlGohar #Quote #sundayvibes #Sp…RT @thegreenheron: During the breeding season, #emotions run high."
#whistpr https://t.co/17IRfUrHv0Today's Truth
"“When u dig another out of their troubles, u find a place 2 bury ur own.” #Amish #proverb"
❤️… https://t.co/oM3YP9ccEEHave you downloaded the Harben House Hotel app yet?
Check out our Facebook page for details.
"#cwhapp… https://t.co/zTjEqBYjRbRT @Dragofix: Make the consumption of dog and cat meat illegal  https://t.co/nMjVWwEO2s #AnimalRights #dog #dogs #cat #catsParty Princess Tutu Dress https://t.co/oEkJBrwiPY #cottoncastles  #babyclothes #kidsfashion #fashion #kids… https://t.co/JjniD4PfMEInfection from Dog Bite Uncommon, But Can Be Fatal 🐾💖⚕"
https://t.co/6BQnOrFsYn

#australianshepherd #aussie #dogs… https://t.co/zbKK13I7QZMade with lean venison protein this recipe provides your dog with delicious flavour and lots of energy without the… https://t.co/SitrHwFDjcAlpsLogic IT Solutions has experience &amp; expertise in a broad range of Microsoft technologies and languages 👍 #USA… https://t.co/7OpfV9W5u9Photo by: Richard Gaston #travel #nature #explore #inspiration #photo #photography #adventure #life https://t.co/YgbpoHoca1RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…RT @Mijopets: Competition Time!
Follow us on Twitter &amp; retweet to enter our social media competition draw to win a FREE Personalised Pamper…A negative mind will never give you a positive life
"#inspiration #motivation https://t.co/k0JRr8cDIBRT @FinnHarperXXX: student apartment with a Czech hunter ...🙈🔥 #boy #gay #gaypublic #twink #porn #rt #czechboy #erotic #czechhunter #Abs #l…""Humanity's true moral test, its fundamental test…consists of its attitude towards those who are at its mercy: anim… https://t.co/tDPB4e6WShRT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu"

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFElectricity... enjoying another day of blue skies and golden sunshine all along the way. Happy Saturday everyone!
".… https://t.co/xs5qa2UWHWRT @PatStrauss3: @MaryJoe38642126 @USEmbPhnomPenh @USAmbCambodia @PeacePalaceKH @voakhmer #Cambodia, it's time for you to demonstrate #resp…When I meditate I also am more observant of my surroundings. I wanted to capture this moment of the birds and how t… https://t.co/r8bL7mr9CeRT @AlmaSmi81652377: Happy early titty day.... #tuesdayvibes #happy #beauty sub for more content 🔥🔥🤤🤤🤤🤤 https://t.co/Hv8A1oy31oHow to Be More Adaptable to Stress Less #motivation https://t.co/hphpFDrCTCRT @funnydo25814387: 😍😅"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/O6BK54F2vRRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Unsure baby Beaks has sure come a long way.
She’s turning one next week!  Beakering Intensifies!!
#ThrowbackThursday #…RT @EdgeCGroup: It’s not about being the most talented and not always about being the smartest. Sometimes it’s not even about working the h…RT @davidbombal: Success is the product of daily habits—not once-in-a-lifetime transformations.

"#DailyMotivation #inspiration #motivation…RT @ThrivingNow24: When I meditate I also am more observant of my surroundings. I wanted to capture this moment of the birds and how they f…RT @nimu_art: 🔥 NEW DROP // My new piece called ""ˈTHiNGkər"" is now Available at @KnownOrigin_io "

ˈTHiNGkər

https://t.co/jpQ8TRUUIt 

My f…Do you have a survival guild? The world is in Kaos  and you need a way to survive the madness.… https://t.co/wSCfxMKfhdRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀#Massage #B2B #Happy ending with affordable price. 
#Location: Jeddah
#Contact: 0560433945 https://t.co/Ni7gp6v5NdRT @DsignsbyCristal: Blue and White Dog Collar - African Print Dog Bow Tie (sold separately) https://t.co/ULrds3CLzz via @Etsy 
#African pr…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Doris (Doll) find a home #ESSEX 
"Lovely Shih Tzu aged 2-5, could live with older teens or adults an…RT @mimuluxArt: oh friday i was given this awesome bouquet by an oooooold friend which i haven't seen for YEARS !! she found me again throu…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu"

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFENDING! 2003-04 Black Diamond #141 Reggie Miller Basketball Card #BlackDiamond #IndianaPacers… https://t.co/uXPFmjwccUAccepting appointments
.⁣
.⁣
.⁣
"#follow #summer #style #beautiful #photography #selfcare #makeuptutorial #lifestyle… https://t.co/EKPtX6UfjSRT @FiveFitness: Have patience and engage in consistent action. Results are created over time and you have to work hard and dedicate yourse…RT @FiveFitness: Have patience and engage in consistent action. Results are created over time and you have to work hard and dedicate yourse…RT @FiveFitness: Have patience and engage in consistent action. Results are created over time and you have to work hard and dedicate yourse…RT @bikalshrestha_: Work for something because it is good, not just because it stands a chance to succeed.  -Vaclav Havel"
#python #twitterb…RT @funnydo25814387: So cute ❤️
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/tqI1MwMx44RT @KnotSimple: Green Crochet Baby Blanket https://t.co/FZ1uGS0u5Z via @Etsy

#FreeShipping On All Items Store Wide

"#babies #handmadegifts…RT @ask1angel: (Marketing) #thoughtoftheday 3 Success essentials: Skillset (knowledge), Mindset &amp; (good, ingrained) Habit(s) https://t.co/6…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: All #dogs are instinctively heroes🐶💖"
Saving lives is just what they do🤗
Now it's our turn🙏

Sign to #BanGreyhoundRacin…Princess Long Sleeve Cartoon Baby Girls Party Dresses https://t.co/jLGV1bhaS1 #cottoncastles  #babyclothes… https://t.co/Y2tTR9UBN6RT https://t.co/VOVnVsUDwR Patience is the realization that the quality of your life is much more significant than… https://t.co/JPdibi7IJGRT @FinleyA90502985: Whoohoo!🌧 We 🐕🐕🐕🐕's are off to the woods to chase 🐿's and 🏄‍♀️🏊‍♀️ we are 4 happy D's 👋🐾❤
#dogsoftwitter 
#dogs 
#resc…RT @dogfans4: This is pure joy!
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/DoZalzpjJkRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 Nothing is working right for wonderful POPPIES.😥 Are you a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC who can turn her luck arou…RT @Protect_Wldlife: #ThoughtForTheDay 

'Dogs using wheels and prosthetics can live as good a life as a fully able bodied dog.'

Please he…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Charlie find a home #Shropshire #UK 
"Very friendly Staffie aged 5-7, loves to cuddle and would love…RT @BuffWoofer: No matter what life throws your way, keep moving forward! "

"#ThinkBigSundayWithMarsha #KeepMovingForward #Motivation #Life…RT @ask1angel: Marketing) #thoughtoftheday Critical content elements: You! &amp; Value https://t.co/68WSaf1rw3 #motivation #mentorhints #social…RT @ikhlaqgohar: If #love is constitution of your #life,  you will never obey intellect| Sufi Master Younus AlGohar #Quote #sundayvibes #Sp…If #love is #constitution of your #life,  you will never #obey #intellect| "

(Sufi Master Younus AlGohar ) https://t.co/foIP5EWWKXSummer Casual Unisex Mesh Flip Flops #friends #outdoor https://t.co/PI1xpZtSc3 https://t.co/pom1MOoVlrRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7RT @amolalolo21: ...
✧∭✧∰✧✿🌺
___________✿✧∰✧∭✧ 

𝐎__𝐞
𝐰𝐡𝐨 𝐤𝐧𝐨𝐰𝐬
𝐡𝐢𝐦𝐬𝐞𝐥𝐟

𝐢𝐬 𝐧𝐞𝐯𝐞𝐫
𝐝𝐢𝐬𝐭𝐮𝐫𝐛𝐞𝐝
𝐛𝐲

𝐰𝐡𝐚𝐭 𝐨𝐭𝐡𝐞𝐫
𝐭𝐡𝐢𝐧𝐤
𝐚𝐛𝐨𝐮𝐭 𝐡𝐢𝐦.

___________✿✧∰✧…Why are people so nice are caring to one another? It's because we're endowed with God's innate ability to love one… https://t.co/lAMwUAwhivRT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @10_Ilovedogs: Aww ❤️
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/Q3Xo0stgDJRT @Flow_blume: @Bella_Ely_ @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @otrogoga60 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sight again, ever.”"
"#d…RT @MillieandGriff: Zoooommmm!! #dogsoftwitter #dogs Mum forgot to share this photo the other day so we've made her post it now!! https://t…RT @Bella_Ely_: @otrogoga60 @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @PetMunchies: #win #giveaway of #PetMunchies #natural #dog  #pet #treats  #dogtreats  #dogs #competition #dogsoftwitter #duck  follow &amp;…RT @IMQuotes_Videos: Never say ""I Can't"" when it comes to something you want to accomplish."

#Motivation https://t.co/S8pYwzZFXGWhat You Think You Create. What You Feel You Attract. What You Imagine You Become.
"-Buddha #MotivationalQuotes #Motivation #inspirationalRT @jazam74: If #love is #constitution of your #life,  you will never #obey #intellect| "

(Sufi Master Younus AlGohar ) https://t.co/foIP5E…RT @Fateme14a: 🐜🐜🐜

The Ant Philosophy 
"Never give up, Look Ahead, Stay positive and do all you can."

🐜🐜🐜

#Motivation https://t.co/UeMxZO1…Benson Are you tired?😌 Rest sweetheart. 🙏💗🙏RT @PlaceKais: How many goldens is too many?
There is no such thing🤣

(max.and.finn IG)
#dogcelebration 
#weekendsmiles #grc
#dogs https://…RT @Ilovemy02803780: 😍😅
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/eNmEuZLVkRRT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 If you are a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC &amp; can share your home, 1 of these 4 sweet &amp; beautiful #dogs needs you to…RT @Ranal55: The future seems to be coming more quickly every day."

"#quote #future #life #SaturdaySunshine https://t.co/Ro6UTwMBR6RT @TrainingMindful: “How to Regain Control of Your Life with Mindfulness Meditation” https://t.co/ZrwZLn54FP meditation #peace #now #contr…RT @fightclub247: Remember the name, Jeremiah Milton 🔥"

"#fightclub247 #boxingfans #smithvalsov #bennvargas #wrestling #mma #boxingclub #box…RT @bishopforeman: POPULAR doesn’t always equal PROFITABLE. #business #entrepreneur #life #LeadershipRT @mapleveewesem: If you would like to #ADOPT or #FOSTER PRINCE, he is best suited to an adults only home as a solo pet. To adopt, schedul…I love capturing these major life moments with art💙 Thank you Kambria for your order!"

"#houseofjacksons… https://t.co/1MRCzKyYmyI wasn’t born rich, I had to acknowledge my worth to become it."

#quotes #Opinion #Truth #smile #inspiration… https://t.co/dWsaAQOUjpThese books hit differently when you're a mom.

https://t.co/4wCP2xCN1O

#momsoflasvegas #lvmommy #mommytobe… https://t.co/G9lBGqXAAcRT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @AnneScottlin: ❦Joy refuses to be confined by the expected and the practical... it overflows to become spontaneous and extraordinary. 
~…Why are people so nice and caring to one another? It's because we're endowed with God's innate ability to love one… https://t.co/PNajVmqTYzRT @_myhealthonline: #health #diets #weightloss #family #home #selfhelp  #followback #exercises #life #followme

Stop Snoring and Sleep #Ap…RT @eldiablo0786: Put the past behind. Move forward one inspired step at a time.

via @Inspireu2Action 

#ThinkBIGSundayWithMarsha 
"#Inspir…RT @harrypetsanis: ""The reward for your good deeds doesn't come from the acknowledgment and applause of others. It comes from knowing you'v…RT @sensie_bot: One today is worth two tomorrows. -Benjamin Franklin"
        #inspiration #motivation #programmingRT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @ILovemy58919370: Weekend mood
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📸: insta/pepperminidachshund https://t.co/zGW1xBWh2kI have a hot date, this is the best I can look #DateArizona #love #life #Phoenix https://t.co/7Fds374q2nWhen it comes to #growth, often one of the byproducts of not achieving what we think we should is self #criticism.… https://t.co/EpxqjMrSLPSnobs are just as ludicrous as some crazy beggars."

#quotes #Opinion #Truth #smile #inspiration #innovation… https://t.co/DRM5uhKEnSWhich one are you? #REALTOR #bepositive #houstonrealtor #pearlandrealtor #realestate #buyingandselling #motivation https://t.co/K1yBnnuxodRT @Snishaa2: Good Night to All My ℒℴѴℯly
Friends👫
"Thank You All For Your ℒฺℴฺνℯฺ, Likes,"
"Rtt, Following &amp; Supporrt This Week🌸"
ℒℴѵℯ You All…RT @Fateme14a: 🐜🐜🐜

The Ant Philosophy 
"Never give up, Look Ahead, Stay positive and do all you can."

🐜🐜🐜

#Motivation https://t.co/UeMxZO1…RT @na_delce: Good morning 🤤 
"#horny #cumshot #erection #fuck #girl #gay #milf #nudes #porn #pussy #black #females #shemale #fuckme #cummmi…My friend got mad at me 'cause I wouldn't take her to see a dude. #friends don't do that. #tonnesworld knows:… https://t.co/nCI7p5fe1nI like when people make jokes on elevators, breaks the ice ya know? #lifeDog cant wait to wake him up #lol #lols #lmao #meme #memes #memesdaily #pet #pets  #dogstagram #dog #doglovers… https://t.co/GzORl2GByyRT @cgbosslady1: Happy Saturday! It’s a beautiful sunny day!  M&amp;D and I are back from our first walk and I have found my first napping plac…RT @TheTwinPowers: We like to think we have full control over our #choices but until we master our minds and ourselves it's an #illusion.…RT @Cathy34298202: Oh baby girl angelsRT @CoyleSonya: Which one are you? #REALTOR #bepositive #houstonrealtor #pearlandrealtor #realestate #buyingandselling #motivation https://…RT @HollywoodLife: A look back at the #Friends cast's transformation over the years:"
"https://t.co/SSJsdeUib8RT @TheTwinPowers: When it comes to #growth, often one of the byproducts of not achieving what we think we should is self #criticism. Remem…RT @The_Animal_Team: #Missing possibly #stolen in the #Abergavenny area, #Monmouthshire #Wales. 12yo long haired #Dachshund, chipped &amp; goin…RT @mapleveewesem: If you would like to #ADOPT or #FOSTER PRINCE, he is best suited to an adults only home as a solo pet. To adopt, schedul…RT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…RT @Paru33071070: @Veritas_Io23 🌠♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️"
  Dear #friends 📶📮♥️♥️
  Thank youu very much.  🌠Have a nice and happy
     day. to all…@RepDanCrenshaw @MZHemingway 💥🇺🇸@RepDanCrenshaw ~
😕#SoSorry ..

#Prayers
For
💥🇺🇸#YOU !!!

Your Wife ..
"💥… https://t.co/8B2gjM02SGImagine if dogs could actually talk though like “my human isn’t always the nicest but he does good a lot” like how earth shattering #dogsRT @Melo1541: In this mad world, I'll put that video over here... hopefully, it'll bring some lights and even make you realize what truly m…RT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters."
"If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…""This awesome weaving of two injured women tied together by a remarkable dog is a story you won't soon forget."""
"🌟🌟🌟… https://t.co/XRtxwsVOhEHope is like the sun, which, as we journey toward it, casts the shadow of our burden behind us. ~Samuel Smiles #quote #motivationRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters."
If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…RT @MercyAn13484274: #Massage #B2B #Happy ending with affordable price. 
#Location: Jeddah
#Contact: 0560433945 https://t.co/Ni7gp6v5NdRT @Arts_42: Existence?
by Bruce Neeley ©️2021
❤️☘️🐥❤️✨❤️🐰❤️🐻❤️✨
#Art 🎨 #Drawing 🖍✒️✏️🖋
#Photography 📸📷❤️✨🌟 
#DigitalPainting ⌨️🖥💻🌟✨
❤️🧡💛💚💙…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀RT @Arts_42: Some photos of my exhibit this month.  #Art #Gratitude 🙏🏻 #Love❤️ #Friends ❤️ #StaySafe 😷
❤️☘️🐥❤️✨🌟🌺🌸🎼🙏🏻 https://t.co/fKLi4Gbi…RT @Arts_42: Winter’s Thaw + detail 
by Bruce Neeley ©️2020
❤️☘️🐥❤️🐰❤️🐻❤️🤗💋
#Art 🎨 #Photography 📸
#DigitalPainting 🖥💻✨❤️
 ❤️🧡💛💚💙💜🖤🤍🤎❤️
#Lov…Look on the bright side! #positive #perspective #find #the #silverlining #just #be #as #happy #as #you #can #be… https://t.co/7KMFtYzp20RT @Arts_42: Spring Awakening 
by Bruce Neeley ©️2021
❤️☘️🐥❤️❤️🦢❤️🦢❤️❤️
#Art 🎨 #Painting 🎨✨✨
#Drawing 🖍✏️🖌✒️🖍✏️
#Photography 📸📷✨✨
#DigitalP…RT @AdoptionsUk: Urgent retweet please to help Jessica find a home #BRIDGEND #WALES 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿
AGED 14 Looking for a quiet home ok with childr…RT @joshcalebgarden: Let life surprise you. 🌿
#motivation #plants #homalomenavariegata (not for sale) https://t.co/zoCRvYAxhQRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Vijay find a home #Shropshire 

"Sweet Collie aged 2-5,  loves human company and is looking for an a…RT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters."
"If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…RT @AnimalsSerious: Please, Texas 🙏 don’t let her extensions go to waste 🙏 please someone save this amazing girl 🙏‼️‼️‼️ ASAP ‼️‼️‼️👇👇👇👇👇👇👇…Bobby -- we got him from APA in January! https://t.co/EqBnfcs8DqRT @AnimalsSerious: Please, Texas 🙏 don’t let her extensions go to waste 🙏 please someone save this amazing girl 🙏‼️‼️‼️ ASAP ‼️‼️‼️👇👇👇👇👇👇👇…RT @Bijan_Cyrus: 💕Speak Words That Bring #PEACE💕 "
💕in Our #World &amp; #PeaceOfMind in💕 
💕#Life Of Others!💕 
@Bijan_Cyrus 

"#IDWP #LOVETRAINFRO…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…Life is lived through perspective."
What one believes are ups and downs. The other sees as growth.… https://t.co/Rw43e4OfekRecognize the little miracles and blessings that make every day better. #ManulifeWeekends #ManulifeEverydaybetter… https://t.co/vUOmZ8ZlVgRT @iamthewolves: Snobs are just as ludicrous as some crazy beggars.

#quotes #Opinion #Truth #smile #inspiration #innovation #Motivational…I knew Sonic the hedgehog. Up close he was a total prick.

#quotes #Opinion #Truth #smile #inspiration #innovation… https://t.co/4l09Aud9hSRT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @mile_high_dad: Marley loves playing fetch and today he found #TheMasters2021. #golf, #GoldenRetriever, #MarleyTuffGong, #dogs, #Colorad…Get top-quality academic help"
Legit 100%
#GradeA/A+
0% Plagiarism
Timely delivery
#student #education #learning… https://t.co/RKipMSlzP4RT @dogfans4: This is pure joy!
"#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter https://t.co/DoZalzpjJkRT @TheTwinPowers: When it comes to #growth, often one of the byproducts of not achieving what we think we should is self #criticism. Remem…RT @Prudentwriter_: Get top-quality academic help"
Legit 100%
#GradeA/A+
0% Plagiarism
Timely delivery
#student #education #learning  #motiv…RT @mapleveewesem: @ginachron Plz RT ⬆ 
Poppies needs to find a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC to #FOSTER her STAT . Plz apply on links in…RT @DrToshia11: Learn to love and respect yourself first and then you can show others how to respect you.

#blackinstem #wocinstem #minorit…RT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…Aww yeah it's all good bing bong bing bong #happy https://t.co/bysZeVurtXRT @_AnimalAdvocate: All #dogs are instinctively heroes🐶💖
Saving lives is just what they do🤗
Now it's our turn🙏

Sign to #BanGreyhoundRacin…People without baths should love the rain.

#quotes #Opinion #Truth #smile #inspiration #innovation… https://t.co/0MA4AxlBVOHow beautiful it is to make someone #Happy  with the simplest things.
🤍✨🎈🎁

#Happybirthday #Dear Shilan 🎈😚 
"Wish yo… https://t.co/E7s50MouUzRT @Bijan_Cyrus: 💕Whatever You Do In This #Life💕, "
💕Do it With #Love For Bringing💕 
💕#PEACE For Our #World &amp;💕 
💕#PeaceOfMind For You!💕 
@Bi…Obedience vs  Disobedience https://t.co/DAfBG1xuXK via @YouTube 
"What is #Obedience? Does this life tenet matters?… https://t.co/mOXVCK15IgRT @Ranal55: If you are not satisfied with the options that life presents to you, find or create new options."

#quote #options #life #creat…Squirrel Vs pepper #dogs https://t.co/rmqqtVcl1hRT @Bijan_Cyrus: 💕Work Toward Being #Peace &amp; #Love💕 
"💕In Our #World Of #Life, So The #Success💕 "
💕And #PeaceOfMind Will Naturally Follow!💕…RT @TheTwinPowers: We like to think we have full control over our #choices but until we master our minds and ourselves it's an #illusion.…RT @Cathy34298202: Oh baby girl angels https://t.co/4xqWBSIb3ART @Bijan_Cyrus: 💕A #Friend is The One Who Gives YOU💕 
"__#Love, #PEACE &amp; #PeaceOfMind💕 "
💕In The Rough Days Of #Life!💕
@Bijan_Cyrus 

#IDWP #…RT @56blackcat: If you haven’t been following 
"the story of when Baby Dog came to live with Malcolm the Cat, you’re missing out! "

"It’s bee…RT @PokerProBV: I hate when this happens. I'm dealt K♣️/♦️ and raise pre-flop, not much, just a normal raise, and all the other players fol…RT @StoryHaikuTanka: #Life and #Death amidst a #Pandemic"

"91st Entry A, #Coronavirus #Poetry Diary https://t.co/3yJqSIE391"

venturing
"onto…RT @Bijan_Cyrus: 💕First, Find Your #Love in #Life💕, So"
💕Find The #PEACE Within For💕 
💕Giving it to Others!💕 
@Bijan_Cyrus 

#IDWP #LOVETRAI…RT @GrandpaSpectrum: Hi Respected #Friends 
Hello #TweeterWorld 
#Namaste 🙏
Good  Evening ☕

Life Is Made Beautiful By Gentle People 

Whos…RT @thecrowdview: MRT @tim_fargo #motivation First find the peace within; then give it away. - Elsa Joy Bailey #quote #WeekendWisdom https:…Success....💕
#LiveLaughLove #Happy #RowelynnesDigitalMarketing #DigitalMarketing #Happiness #GreatDay #Motivation… https://t.co/lL3euptRA1RT @Ilovemy02803780: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
"📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/NcfuAZLw…RT @funnydo25814387: Luna was fatally shot while pursuing a suspect. Our hearts go out to her fellow officers — thank you for your service,…RT @Berti_and_Ernie: Let me cheer you up!  smile #dogs https://t.co/dC1xzp4VmgInstead of asking why aren’t you smiling, why not f*cking cheer me up?"

#quotes #Opinion #Truth #smile #inspiration… https://t.co/4RIEpvmDZVRT @bulldog_crazy: How cute??
"#englishbulldog #dogs #Bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #puppy https://t.co/fT65gObFUILive for now because that is all you have, tomorrow is promised to no one 🙂"
"#quotes #MotivationalQuotes #LifeGoesOn… https://t.co/8c5V45pQhSWhen wrong people leave your life, the right things start happening. #motivationRT @texastwins2004: #cindyism #failure #quotes #grateful #success #inspiration #motivation #lifequotes #selflove #quote “FAILURES are the S…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! "

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJIt amazing to be able to experience the normal life here in #Mexico  where artists are still allowed to perform and… https://t.co/uIaEZRGsuBSpider Spawn.

"#spiderling #parenting #wolfspider #babies #macro #arachnid https://t.co/RjVYXzJ9D3RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Ruby find a home #Southport 🍀RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @QuotesEveryda10: ""I am the captain of my soul."""
#quote #quotes #inspiration #motivation #true #quoteofthedayRT @DriverClassics: DriverClassics https://t.co/lZiNHo1dwA
 #amreading #book #kindlebook #MotivationalQuote #WritingCommunity #writing #ins…RT @dogfans4: That #360 tail spin 🤣🐶
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
📹: insta/minidoodlebentley https://t.co/dVaZnhhLSsA true friend is one who overlooks your failures and tolerates your success! #friends #friendshipsDon’t focus on making people’s lives unclear.

#Trending #quote #quotes #quotestoliveby #motivation #positivity… https://t.co/OsBLgQH1Gu.

"It's good to leave each day behind, like flowing water, free of sadness. Yesterday is gone and its tale told. To… https://t.co/J8NRCqMvZ4RT @DriverClassics: DriverClassics https://t.co/lZiNHoiOo8"
" #amreading #book #kindlebook #MotivationalQuote #WritingCommunity #writing #ins…RT @Melo1541: In this mad world, I'll put that video over here... hopefully, it'll bring some lights and even make you realize what truly m…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 If you are a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC &amp; can share your home, 1 of these 4 sweet &amp; beautiful #dogs needs you to…RT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7Have another drink &amp; make your worries disappear. "
"You can have what you like, but you can’t have it here.… https://t.co/FH8M324zFzInstead of worrying about what could go wrong, change your #thoughts to what could go #right."

When you want to suc… https://t.co/IKMDBSLcKLBeing in your 20s is hard and you will definitely make many mistakes!

It’s part of life. 
 
#life #talks #gaming… https://t.co/eBo1lnilUnRT @MiaMalkova: Smile 😊 

"#weekend #friyay #love #happy #style https://t.co/IWkzGoxY2eWe are GTAeventsinfo.We do weekly events in Toronto.Please join us https://t.co/aLT4pjPg57 #Fun #happy #Events https://t.co/hrBIFK64HUThere’s always another way! Thank you @DLStrokeSupGrp #SaturdayMotivation #neuroscience #NeverGiveUpOur virtues and our failings are inseparable, like force and matter. When they separate, man is no more.   -Nikola… https://t.co/U77tC3BOLYIt’s alright to doubt &amp; stress and shake in fear. "
You don’t have to be complete to be here.

"#Trending… https://t.co/CJubiKUosfHi, Curvys 😍"
.
"Have a sweet night, remember to shape your body with our shapewear 🤗"
.
Buy now at… https://t.co/ofeJLj0dijRT @funnydo25814387: “How it started ➡️ how it’s going”
#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsoftwitter 
"📸: insta/onetailatatime https://t.co/rT1icMpQ…𝗗𝗮𝘆 𝟭𝟴, 𝗦𝗮𝗱𝗵𝗮𝗻𝗮 𝗔𝗿𝗮𝗱𝗵𝗮𝗻𝗮"
𝟭𝟭𝘁𝗵  𝗔𝗽𝗿__𝗹 𝟮𝟬𝟮𝟭
Today’s Message From our beloved Lord-
𝗜𝗻𝘁𝗲𝗻𝘀𝗶𝘁𝘆

#aaradhna #day #Gujarat… https://t.co/2UHbVMUENuRT @MiaMalkova: Smile 😊 

"#weekend #friyay #love #happy #style https://t.co/IWkzGoxY2e""Work hard in silence, let your success be your noise."" — Frank Ocean #motivation #inspiration https://t.co/78Dnpt2JsPRT @MagdalenaMeisel: ❤️Dear Friends, I am sending you this timeless beautiful song and wish you all a romantic evening❤️"
🎧I Will Always Lov…RT @germa_shepherd: Cute? 😍😍😍

#GermanShepherd #gsd #dogs #puppyday  #EUNWOO #JUNGKOOK #jisoo https://t.co/jswP9dgVMSRT @davidbombal: Success is the product of daily habits—not once-in-a-lifetime transformations.

#DailyMotivation #inspiration #motivation…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJThe shame of fighting against time, is that time always wins; so work with it and not against it."

#motivation #mindset #thestruggleisreal● BELIEVE – while others are Doubting.
● PLAN – while others are Playing.
● STUDY – while others are Sleeping.
● DE… https://t.co/dET7tNy6AART @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFBeautiful &amp; deep. #Life https://t.co/7EQ70p3J6HRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…One less cup of fancy coffee each week."
Give that $5 to a homeless person.

"#Homeless #homelessness #quote #quotes… https://t.co/69odQIiGTeCrispy chicken skin with honey 🍯 dipping sauce, yummo !! "
#food #delicious #yummy #eat #instagood #love #happy… https://t.co/r7CrMknkM1RT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
"If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…RT @JovenHealth: Stressing about your children during #COVID19?  Affection and warmth lead to positive outcomes for children: https://t.co/…RT @nakedwithadele: ""The more we constantly understand about who we are, the less we are inclined to believe our thoughts."" 💌🌍 #quote #Nake…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu"

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
"If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…I’m 70 followers away from 1,000 amazing new FURiends! 😱You’re all incredibly kind and I’m a thankful pup! 🐶💛… https://t.co/kscRJYPqC3RT @Flow_blume: @Bella_Ely_ @otrogoga60 @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…Do you care about the order &amp; the feeling that you rank? "
"If you’re thinking about being thoughtless, make your min… https://t.co/0HLOTCq6NDBeautiful &amp; deep. #Life https://t.co/H5JoWMPmpnRT @BearBertthe: '... And today I follow his footsteps and stand where greatness once stood'"

#dogsoftwitter #dogs #Dog #smileforbert ♥ htt…RT @Comedio4: Dog cant wait to wake him up #lol #lols #lmao #meme #memes #memesdaily #pet #pets  #dogstagram #dog #doglovers  #dogsofinsta…Shoulder and Biceps workout!
"PROGRAM DAY 65/65, FINAL DAY!!"
Move ya dang body streak DAY 81

CLICK LINK in bio to w… https://t.co/HdKwQp65amI can't copy what you have cut. 
Burnt out in the ashes of your cigarette butt.

#quote #quotes #MondayMotivation… https://t.co/3ZAi2zY4y6RT @avecozave: Remember...
#ThoughtForTheDay #life #quotes #quote #motivation https://t.co/q5PQqTModjHow was your day?' is a question that matters a lot more than it seems. - Seth Godin #lifeRT @Flow_blume: @Bella_Ely_ @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @otrogoga60 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFThe look that says, ""Why you do this to me?"" #ohio #dogs #puppy #wienerdog #miniaturedachshund #towpath @ Navarre T… https://t.co/BkrtX0Xy81RT @Rocketlady_UNLM: “Your time is limited, so don’t waste it living someone else’s life.”"
#NAME?
.
.
"#RocketLady #FellowshipFridays…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Rumble find a home #Hampshire https://t.co/fXGNBIp6jCRT @Rocketlady_UNLM: “Your time is limited, so don’t waste it living someone else’s life.”"
#NAME?
.
.
"#RocketLady #FellowshipFridays…RT @ptarkkonen: How was your day?' is a question that matters a lot more than it seems. - Seth Godin #lifeRT @Berti_and_Ernie: Let me cheer you up!  smile #dogs https://t.co/dC1xzp4VmgRT @PsyberGuide: Daily reminder that all of your emotions are valid, both the positive ones and the negative ones! "
Credit: @saddie_baddies…Darn the water is cold on my tooshie 🐶🐾🦴👀🚽
"#toilet #bathroom #saturdayvibes #design #animalplanet  #restroom… https://t.co/4B8QPTw3cWBecause sometimes you just have to have ice cream! Purple Yam ice cream on a Red Velvet cone, and Lychee ice cream… https://t.co/InkRiPdudvRT @TheTwinPowers: When it comes to #growth, often one of the byproducts of not achieving what we think we should is self #criticism. Remem…RT @jasoncaine: Never make drastic life changing decisions when completely consumed by anger or sadness. Take a moment &amp; let the situation…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾🆘 2 yo YING in #CorpusChristi #Texas is in dire need of a #DogLover to offer to #FOSTER him TODAY! Plz RT, &amp; #PLEDGE f…RT @80sqween: Happy #Saturday Beauties! Who loves to rub their belly on da grass? Eww, it feels good. Pleass be safe, #healthy , and happy.…RT @jasoncaine: Keys 2 happiness: have a goal. Something 2 look fwd to. It’s important 2 have goals 2 work towards. Things 2 look fwd to. S…RT @OIPAInternation: A mass culling of strays in #Pakistan: 25,000 #dogs expected to be killed in the next few weeks. "

"We are writing to t…RT @_inspirationbot: As soon as laws are necessary for men, they are no longer fit for freedom. - Pythagorus #inspiration #motivation #quoteRT @derpydogdale: Fly high Frodo. We are heartbroken to see this. You brightened our days, and were such a shining light. 💔 🌈 🐾RT @10_Ilovedogs: Aww ❤️"
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/Q3Xo0stgDJI'll get this ball! #dog #friends https://t.co/rIuKMLPJlSRT @AdoptionsUk: Urgent retweet please to help Jessica find a home #BRIDGEND #WALES 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿
AGED 14 Looking for a quiet home ok with childr…RT @jasoncaine: B thankful 4 the days that UR healthy. So often we take 4 granted the simple things but they can change in an instant. Cher…RT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @jasoncaine: Wishing you guys a Happy Easter weekend! Much love to you all! #easter #EasterWeekend #Easter2021 #weekendvibes #love #frie…RT @Flow_blume: @Bella_Ely_ @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @otrogoga60 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @Bella_Ely_: @otrogoga60 @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @joelle47019650: For love of dogs 
Please sign and share the Greyhound #Petition 

https://t.co/u4cpzdDfFy

#BanGreyhoundRacing #mickthe…NO LIMIT 🔥🔥🔥🔥

Click play below if you haven’tRT @bulldog_crazy: How cute??
#englishbulldog #dogs #Bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #puppy https://t.co/fT65gObFUIYa know there's not a day that goes by that night doesn't follow.

#Trending #quoteoftheday #PositiveVibes #comedy… https://t.co/ue3KjZ1HxaRT @MaverickMindse2: Happy Saturday! Go get 'em 💪#InspirationalQuotes #Motivation https://t.co/qnW13HPT7dRT @GymFlash11: In search of a workout partner for private sessions... 😉 😍 Submit your own Gym Selfies via DM's &gt;&gt; @GymFlash11 📩 #gym #fitn…RT @MischiefAndFun: You never lose Friends.
Real ones will always stay - no matter what
"and the fakes, you don't need anyways."
#Friends #To…RT @funnydo25814387: 😘🥰
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/N6WgMxijRTLet’s say it in unison - 

I’ve got SO MUCH MORE TO OFFER. 

"#lifeRT @benkubassek: ""A little consideration makes all the difference!"" "

 #inspiration #motivation https://t.co/cFAxHsLx5SRT @basedZCV: hmm today i will #tweet my #trpg with #hashtags so i may reach a larger #audience despite my #friends telling #overuse of has…I’m progressively regressing back to the point where I know no beginning.

"#Trending #quote #quotes #quotestoliveby… https://t.co/jl0Bg5vkfsRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @AlpsInfoCorp: AlpsLogic IT Solutions has experience &amp; expertise in a broad range of Microsoft technologies and languages 👍 #USA #Canada…RT @LittlePandaFX: Avoid entering at breakouts, instead try to enter at the “breakout of a corrective structure”. This will help you to fil…RT @yoda76547: Squirrel Vs pepper #dogs https://t.co/rmqqtVcl1hRT @SimpliTeach: 25 things to love about #teaching online | ♥ 22. If you work from a home office, you can ""hire"" four-legged support staff.…RT @MBUSAEG: #Life is like a #piano.  There are white fingers, which is #happiness, and there are black fingers, which is sadness, but be s…RT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
https://t.co/HL3xKBhh0eRT @Berti_and_Ernie: I'll get this ball! #dog #friends https://t.co/rIuKMLPJlSRT @PlaceKais: How many goldens is too many?
There is no such thing🤣

(max.and.finn IG)
#dogcelebration 
#weekendsmiles #grc
"#dogs https://…Don't think the solution for getting rid of random idiot police with past violations is to defund the whole police… https://t.co/RB4P6GWDPiRT @Berti_and_Ernie: I'll get this ball! #dog #friends https://t.co/rIuKMLPJlSRT @AKCHercules: Please help if you can, we did! ❤️ @nuggetsdrooling @RidleyHowell @casie190 @abby_bulldog @itsSirGustafson @Catsemail @elv…RT @GauchoRusty: Belly Rubbers wanted! Great prospects for the right person. Salary is negotiable but will probably not be paid. "
"#dogsoftw…Follow @MotivationBytes for daily Inspiration #Quotes #Inspiration #Motivation #inspirational #Motivational… https://t.co/4PBzTfICzpRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾"
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…Be kind &amp; love you’ll find.
"If you are driven, don’t drive people out of their mind."

#quote #comedy #Writers… https://t.co/GnUN2xAjRIThe boutta finesse niggas😂RT @MaryJoe38642126: .@PeacePalaceKH #HunSen

#EnactEnforce #Laws #Banning #DogMeatTrade In #Cambodia 🙏🏽

#Dogs Are #Tortured 

The #DogMea…RT @ViviHutton: Looking for some fun? Link in bio 
"#modellife #lion #Viviland #tattoo #power #freedomofexpression #happy #lion #white #shor…RT @CateringHQ: Crispy chicken skin with honey 🍯 dipping sauce, yummo !! "
#food #delicious #yummy #eat #instagood #love #happy #life 
https…RT @ViviHutton: Looking for some fun? Link in bio 
#modellife #lion #Viviland #tattoo #power #freedomofexpression #happy #lion #white #shor…“Un-Fortunate Cookies” 

Live long &amp; expire at your own pace.

"#Trending #quoteoftheday #quotes #PositiveVibes… https://t.co/fra9fEjB3FRT @OIPAInternation: A mass culling of strays in #Pakistan: 25,000 #dogs expected to be killed in the next few weeks. "

"We are writing to t…RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @AAGR_UK: Help more #Dogs like these two. When their rescuers saved them, they never imagined the flow of redundant racing #Greyhounds c…' Most of the people who succeed have their life in as Simplest form like saying YES or NO... Complicating life doe… https://t.co/Zy4DN7F4yBRT @Berti_and_Ernie: I'll get this ball! #dog #friends https://t.co/rIuKMLPJlSRT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @Flow_blume: @Bella_Ely_ @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @otrogoga60 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @Bella_Ely_: @otrogoga60 @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…The most important thing is to enjoy your life - to be happy. It's all that matters..."

"#Personaldevelopment… https://t.co/CarlkyDMXgHear from Allison Edwards about her new release Flooded, A Brain-Based Guide to Help Children Regulate Emotions. Fo… https://t.co/lpQOolDb9XStay #curious, joyous and gracious... and let your #imagination and #love flow freely! "

.

#mindfulness #growth… https://t.co/hUcTc9RNBSEffortless: Make It Easier to Do What Matters Most
#selfimprovement #mindfulness #love #motivation #selfhelp… https://t.co/CLs32pZhEO#Sales The Three Keys to Sustained Motivation in Sales (part 3) - James Muir @B2B_SalesTips https://t.co/9AkXmpMzI0… https://t.co/RGvSZ84CV1RT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…Motivational Quotes.....

"#motivation #inspiration #inspirational #motivational #quote #quotes #love… https://t.co/nd47N5VNWmRT @Berti_and_Ernie: I'll get this ball! #dog #friends https://t.co/rIuKMLPJlSRT @pfcjasmine: Today is my Birthday 3 years old  Daddy cooked a turkey, I think it's for me, I got a doggy cake. Went for a pedi cure, goi…Success is an everyday task."

#Inspiratinalquote #Success #PamTen #Driventotransform #StephenHawking #life https://t.co/vMuo9BPF50I decline your refusal to accept me for anything other than what you want me to be.

#Trending #quotestoliveby… https://t.co/5HtnxCHJjYToday’s BOOMERS! (c) stevenn beck here’s “TAKE THIS JOB AND...”
Follow BOOMERS! on FB-Twitter-IG
#nohate #justice… https://t.co/VrQqo0AV8VSay hello to Roz! She joined the GALT New Mexico family yesterday. Watch for her to be available to approved applic… https://t.co/hz5gb5lJWdEnjoy your time at home. Take time to do things you haven't had a chance to do in a while...like breathe.… https://t.co/ux73xmksyQRT @texastwins2004: #cindyism #failure #quotes #grateful #success #inspiration #motivation #lifequotes #selflove #quote “FAILURES are the S…RT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…Turban Style Bath Towel For Quick Drying Of Hair
$9.95 and FREE Shipping Worldwide
"https://t.co/6vapImBmt8… https://t.co/0Kl10szZc1RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…My babies ❤️ Destry’s face cracks me up every time I look at it! 😂 #kiddos #babies #furbabies @ Oahu, Hawaii https://t.co/hbaFJw9PXBRT @Flow_blume: @Bella_Ely_ @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @otrogoga60 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @Bella_Ely_: @otrogoga60 @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @funnydo25814387: “I never gave up. My husband never gave up. My kids never gave up. He’s never getting out of my sight again, ever.”"
"#d…RT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…I wanted to share an important memory with you all, but I forgot it."

#quote #quotes #quotestoliveby #motivation… https://t.co/bKenlLcrZkRT @_AnimalAdvocate: All #dogs are instinctively heroes🐶💖
Saving lives is just what they do🤗
Now it's our turn🙏

"Sign to #BanGreyhoundRacin…RT @VibePrism: According to positive psychology, did you know that showing gratitude actually makes you a happier person?"

"Gratitude is the…RT @eddyricejr: I wanted to share an important memory with you all, but I forgot it."

#quote #quotes #quotestoliveby #motivation #positivit…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…Lately I’ve not been wanting to do what they want me to do. 
But I’m afraid to do what I want to.

#Trending… https://t.co/ombLLIT518RT @eddyricejr: Enjoy your time at home. Take time to do things you haven't had a chance to do in a while...like breathe.

"#Trending #quote…RT @TheTwinPowers: When it comes to #growth, often one of the byproducts of not achieving what we think we should is self #criticism. Remem…Miss yesterday’s BOOMERS! (c) stevenn beck here’s “A FRIEND IN NEED”"
Follow BOOMERS! on FB-Twitter-IG
"#nohate… https://t.co/rsMI9tMyikRT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @shubhamkanwar97: Effortless: Make It Easier to Do What Matters Most"
"#selfimprovement #mindfulness #love #motivation #selfhelp #personal…😊Aww shucks lil' sis' &gt; @sscoop90 Can't tell you how happy it makes me to to be described as one of your bad-ass si… https://t.co/gbWVj3dXLzWe only live once, Snoopy."

Wrong!
We only die once.
We live every day!
.
.
Be like Snoopy - live every day! ~… https://t.co/Y8fJrXw5RoRT @Salem_sfc_offl: #Happy Siblings Day- #Wishes from SURIYA FANS CLUB-SALEM  🤗❤👬👫 

#SiblingsDay Wishing all #SuriyaAnna's Thambigal &amp; sis…Nine cutieeee💕
#NineThirdStageSuperMVP #นายท่านกรชิต #高卿尘  #AlittleNine #Nine #Ninehappiness  #Chuang2021xNine… https://t.co/VRmfAt16c3I loved you without regrets &amp; ended up in the gutter soaking wet without any cigarettes.

#quote #quotes… https://t.co/ToY3GyTYsYRT @doglovers2020: 😍👀
#dogs #dogsoftwitter 
📹: insta/molly_theblondie https://t.co/H7H9GQV2IURT @_AnimalAdvocate: Nobody says you have to love #dogs but you have to hate them if you still want dog racing to continue 🐕💔 

✒️#BanGreyh…Everyone has value. It’s up to YOU to know it

#valued #encouragement #love #selfcare #selflove #God #jesuslovesyou #enjoy #lifeRT @BearBertthe: He took his time but Albert is accepting of the neighbours cats and allowed them into the house🙀 

"They had free reign und…RT @TheTwinPowers: When it comes to #growth, often one of the byproducts of not achieving what we think we should is self #criticism. Remem…RT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage"
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…I am so sorry for your loss. These pups have such a truly wonderful impact on our lives...and when they leave us a… https://t.co/L9L8qjvGuqI guess she's telling me that I'm getting on her nerves lol #degeneres #lol #dogs #dogsofinstagram… https://t.co/29D8ENDFvGI was waiting on the corner for you &amp; fell off the edge.

"#quote #quotes #quotestoliveby #motivation #positivity… https://t.co/y36kbpGiGVRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @DrJDrooghaag: 🔵 You do not win by competing with others, you win by improving yourself."

"#Quote #Inspiration #Motivation #QOTD #IQRTG #…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bella find a home #Manchester #DogsofTwittterRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @juliana_monty: Baby #lamb keeps asking to be petted just like #dogs &amp; #cats would. Live animal exports to be banned in #England &amp; #Wale…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…Building arm strength is an essential part of  daily routine.💪"

"#Goplus #Fitness #Health #Exercise #Muscle… https://t.co/997kB7QM7bTake time to acknowledge the good things your doing with your life and celebrate them. We underestimate the good th… https://t.co/LHIK0iJMfTRT @xvermonter61: No words needed! ❤️#Dogs #SaturdayVibes #DogsOfTwitter https://t.co/KFGcylgbEI‘Colours are forces, radiant energies that affect us positively or negatively, whether we are aware of it or not.’… https://t.co/QymHOSHno0Enough is enough until it isn’t &amp; your left with your head under a caterpillar praying, you’ll never be a butterfly… https://t.co/REM17ey4T2RT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @ITutmez: ● BELIEVE – while others are Doubting."
● PLAN – while others are Playing.
● STUDY – while others are Sleeping.
"● DECIDE – whil…RT @ITutmez: Instead of worrying about what could go wrong, change your #thoughts to what could go #right."

When you want to succeed as bad…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamWhiskey river’s taking my mind on a trip where I don’t want to go. 
It’s not that far on this journey to get lost i… https://t.co/ygwllp9e4rHappy baby❤️❤️❤️ #happy #bigbaby #horse #horsesofinstagram #horselife #baby #percheron #saturday #saturdayvibes… https://t.co/ko8EkQcveGRT @eric_okomado: Use the magic wand of kindness
To improve the quality of the lives of those around you.

#DropsthatINSPIRE
"#BeINSPIREDtod…no us, no must i guess..🙄.#trending #music #rap #hiphop #quotes #livestream #business #life #motivation #memes… https://t.co/CZMGqk3bmURT @mapleveewesem: @ginachron Plz RT ⬆ "
"Poppies needs to find a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC to #FOSTER her STAT . Plz apply on links in…RT @AuthorCschoenig: True love never dies, it may get buried, but it doesn't die."
 
https://t.co/KwgV634094
https://t.co/qy8iGdKJWt
  #erot…RT @AndrewinContact: Experts on the #Cybersecurity Risks of Smart City #Technology

"https://t.co/M3ctBB4KsZ via @GlenGilmore by @CLTCBerkel…RT @LifeWithJohn: We only live once, Snoopy."

Wrong!
We only die once.
We live every day!
.
.
Be like Snoopy - live every day! ~ #Life #Pos…RT @360Meditate: Uplift yourself by uplifting others.

#inspirational #inspirationalquotes #quote #quotes #motivation #inspiration #motivat…RT @Aslanthe4eared1: So much cuteness for a #Caturday ... I just can’t with these two...  🥺😍Must Watch!  #CatsOfTwitter #dogsoftwitter #dog…RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @dinnydot: Out and about with my friends 🤗
Masks off for photographs 😂
#SaturdayNight #friends https://t.co/REYvT1s0Xz#dogsoftwitter are the best!!! We met our goal today &amp;  we will be donating $100 to A2A Rescue in Idaho! I can’t th… https://t.co/PcElYPHyUGRT @CHUANG_Official: #ChuangThirdStage
🥳Open Stage of #Oscar #Nine #LinMo #LiuZhang #ZengHanjiang

Are you ready to #Happy
Let's goooo~~

#…RT @SylvesterRandom: WARMING UP :
- 3.2 minutes of steps
- Warm up your ankles for 1 minute.

PROGRAM :
- 5 squat jumps 4 sets.
- 6 hops fr…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @TheTwinPowers: Stay #curious, joyous and gracious... and let your #imagination and #love flow freely! "

.

#mindfulness #growth 
#spiri…RT @WilfandErnie: Dad thinks we've got enough #stuffedfrens. Pfft 😤 good job Mums in charge 😂😂 #dogsoftwitter #dogs #SaturdayMotivation # h…RT @10_Ilovedogs: Aww ❤️
#dogs #dogsoftwitter #DogsofTwittter 
"📹: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/Q3Xo0stgDJAnother gorgeous day today! Got a good 5.5km in 🌺☺️💕🌼 what did you do today outside? #sunshine #walk #exercise #fitness #happy #summer""Be yourself; everyone else is already taken."""
"#quote #quotes #inspiration #motivation #true #quoteofthedayRT @TheTwinPowers: When it comes to #growth, often one of the byproducts of not achieving what we think we should is self #criticism. Remem…RT @MillieandGriff: Zoooommmm!! #dogsoftwitter #dogs Mum forgot to share this photo the other day so we've made her post it now!! https://t…know how to avoid the traps that lead to dieting failure - what do you want to achieve through dieting? - visit… https://t.co/nIBTfx5Squ#Inspiration and #Motivation How To Stay Positive (it's a choice) https://t.co/S8TsPEV1SpRT @Splatland: ""This awesome weaving of two injured women tied together by a remarkable dog is a story you won't soon forget."""
🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟
"SARAH…Had to learn by the hard way tryna make it a better way 🌨   #sto #life #wshh #mksto #get i#how #you #live 🪐😈🙏🏽🌨 https://t.co/Undepohjx7RT @ScarlettBeagle: ""Can you see my laboratory tattoo number? Thank you @MpHendrick for signing #EDM250, for a Govt mandated hearing to sto…Love dogs? We do too?! Each purchase on https://t.co/vO7LNAjHMU helps save #dogs in need."
"Free Shipping in the US… https://t.co/bbv7wIn8e4Showing off my @qwertee #lotr #friends reference shirt - great day in #soca https://t.co/aH0QvYf5NmToday is Letty’s 5th Birthday! Love my baby girl! 🎉🎂 HAPPY BIRTHDAY LETTY! 🎉🎉 #happybirthday #lifeoflettythebulldog… https://t.co/7yltgdKFVYRT @LittlePandaFX: No matter how much damage you have, ALWAYS follow your plan. The light at the end of the tunnel will come soon ⚡️"

✅ Joi…RT @ives_zana: Cute English Bull Terrier Cornhole Set https://t.co/yOS0NTKVQh via @zazzle  #dog #bullterrier #cornhole #doglovers #pets #la…Chill out and #relax more. We take our lives way too seriously - don't forget to live them! 

.

#tooshort… https://t.co/rEOtquiRkt@lauragooddeath on the rocks 🍹
.
#ahuasurf #puresurfing  
#natureborn #nontoxic
.
.
.
#instagood #instadaily… https://t.co/KB4VYBfJkjFinding balance and joy in life. https://t.co/aiqchyb4an #motivation #procrastination #life #balance
" #BlogRT @funnydo25814387: This photo warmed my heart forever, lucky owner ❤️"
 #dogs #dogsoftwitter #dogsofinstagram
https://t.co/HL3xKBhh0eRT @rony_actor: Good morning fans

@SapnaSh68279055 

#love #instagood #fashion #photooftheday #beautiful #art #photography #bb14 #happy #p…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Gil find a home #Carmarthenshire #Wales 🍀RT @TrainingMindful: “How to Regain Control of Your Life with Mindfulness Meditation” https://t.co/ZrwZLn54FP meditation #peace #now #contr…RT @mapleveewesem: @ginachron Plz RT ⬆ 
Poppies needs to find a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC to #FOSTER her STAT . Plz apply on links in…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFLet's tryyyyRT @Life__Quotes: Because our choices are largely based on survival. But if life is eternal, life is not a question. Neale Donald Walsch #q…RT @LifeWithJohn: We only live once, Snoopy."

Wrong!
We only die once.
We live every day!
.
.
"Be like Snoopy - live every day! ~ #Life #Pos…""I don't measure my life by the money I've made. Other people might, but I certainly don't."" Warren Buffett #life https://t.co/BNedWDBeycNew post: Wale To Make Appearance At WrestleMania 37 https://t.co/Z3bOSA28KB "
Join our discord for exclusive conten… https://t.co/62cDeMopajRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bruce find a home #SHROPSHIRE 

"Aged 2-5, loves food and toys, very clever, looking for an experien…RT @LifeWithJohn: Sometimes you have to make a decision that will break your heart but will bring peace to your soul. - Trent Shelton ~ In…⚠️MANIFEST MIRACLES⚠️Live Wealth and Abundance Meditaiton  https://t.co/uKcTJMt598 "

"#meditation #yoga #love… https://t.co/UapWhyinqFRT @animal_AFOT: Dinah found in agony with a broken leg had surgery but it went wrong and is now awaiting surgery but she’s hoping for her…RT @alanemwaters: “In all your temporal concerns, in all your cares and anxieties, wait upon the Lord.” - Ellen White "

#anxiety #quoteofth…RT @raffertysbitch: #FRIENDS: Here’s to never growing up! https://t.co/22B39A8CixRT @DreamVerse3: ⚠️MANIFEST MIRACLES⚠️Live Wealth and Abundance Meditaiton  https://t.co/uKcTJMt598 

#meditation #yoga #love #mindfulness…Shade of Ash # 11 - Albert James Douglas #amwriting #writingcommunity #grandfather #loss #life #memory #thoughts… https://t.co/PrnBfQEaIlRT @56blackcat: If you haven’t been following 
"the story of when Baby Dog came to live with Malcolm the Cat, you’re missing out! "

It’s bee…RT @fawkestalk: Yeti at his puppy training class with his daddy.  Yeti is doing great! @LabradorYuki @DoodleNessa @Beata_Azlan @barleylabra…RT @IshaEurope: I do not believe in telling people what they should do. My business is only to make you conscious.

#Sadhguru #Life #Wisdom…RT @ives_zana: Cute English Bull Terrier Cornhole Set https://t.co/yOS0NTKVQh via @zazzle  #dog #bullterrier #cornhole #doglovers #pets #la…RT @DreamVerse3: ⚠️MANIFEST MIRACLES⚠️Live Wealth and Abundance Meditaiton  https://t.co/uKcTJMt598 

#meditation #yoga #love #mindfulness…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @InvitationSuitz: https://t.co/4FHAr3CiIg 50% off #babyshower #invitations 15% off Sitewide ZSPECIALNEWS Ends 4-11-21 @ 11:59 PM PST  #b…RT @AnneScottlin: Wishing you a wonderful weekend! 💗
I’m out in nature heaven today... just wanted to share...
"#Annescottlin #happy #video…RT @jazam74: If #love is #constitution of your #life,  you will never #obey #intellect| "

"(Sufi Master Younus AlGohar ) https://t.co/foIP5E…RT @ydnemsho: if you’re afraid to be judged, you might as well fall down n die #life 🤷🏾‍♂️RT @TheTwinPowers: Chill out and #relax more. We take our lives way too seriously - don't forget to live them! "

.

#tooshort 
#enjoylife #…RT @dogsfootprint: Nitro is a big 13 today 🐶❤️

Via: TiiskyDE

#dog #dogs #puppy #dogoftheday #cutedog https://t.co/h0g7W7QC6gRT @Berti_and_Ernie: I'll get this ball! #dog #friends https://t.co/rIuKMLPJlSRT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @Flow_blume: @Bella_Ely_ @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @otrogoga60 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…could be more to it i thought..🙄🤷‍♂️#trending #music #life #motivation  #instagram #gamer #positive #success #love… https://t.co/U4BTZ0xKQlRT @Bella_Ely_: @otrogoga60 @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @MiaMalkova: Smile 😊 

"#weekend #friyay #love #happy #style https://t.co/IWkzGoxY2eRT @ashokaou: Those who are confident are humble, while those who are not confident are arrogant"

#quotations #quotes #life

https://t.co/p…RT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…Free Affiliate Program [Affiliate Partnership]: Affiliate Partners earn 25 per cent from all sales generated using… https://t.co/ZlrBmAvwRIPuppy love at first sight! #DogsofTwittter #puppies #lostdog #dogs #canikeephim https://t.co/fZeCbYR4QSRT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…RT @Teuta_Metra: ““I read a book one day and my whole life was changed.” - Orhan Pamuk 

"#book #booklovers #books #life https://t.co/Nj6DXk…#party #babies Women's Leopard Pattern Metal Buckle Belts https://t.co/dkQqHqiZAGRT @TheTwinPowers: Stay #curious, joyous and gracious... and let your #imagination and #love flow freely! "

.

#mindfulness #growth 
#spiri…Better to be without #Logic than without #feeling.

#lifelesson
#inspirational
#Motivational #motivation… https://t.co/cTg3UAYxkHhttps://t.co/8qhwZwVL3M 
Enter The Lake Tahoe Gallery 
Art for sale 
https://t.co/yoYwIBeZG4 
#Prints #Canvas… https://t.co/iNgZs295lnMany thanks to Keyhaven Yacht Club for taking the time to share your experience on Trustpilot.

Learn why our custo… https://t.co/IqZoNOjwgGArchives - Prepare for Lifting of Lockdown – Adapting to New Normal https://t.co/k7TTJRBXI1 #motivationRT @bunsenbernerbmd: Here is where being cute matters.
If you find a deer leg and haul it kilometres back to the house to share with the hu…MANIFEST MIRACLES - Live Wealth and Abundance Meditation  

https://t.co/uKcTJMt598 

#meditation #yoga #love… https://t.co/yafvUqRRMpRT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFWhen you have to zone out because others are pissing you off🤣RT @MiriMission: Nessy is here and she is looking for her forever home. 

Isn't she adorable?!

"If you would like to be considered, please…Don’t spot when you are tired stop when you’re done.   #Plant #Petal #Flower #Blossom #Leaf #Pollen #Nature #Love… https://t.co/4vvdUbi3Z6Let's Go Shopping At Costco! #Alaska #COSTCO #Anchorage #FamilyDay #Life... https://t.co/DRFSaUsR6g via @YouTubeRT @TheTwinPowers: Chill out and #relax more. We take our lives way too seriously - don't forget to live them! "

.

#tooshort 
#enjoylife #…I am seeing spots and one 🖤 before my eyes!RT @Diditaihuttu: It amazing to be able to experience the normal life here in #Mexico  where artists are still allowed to perform and peopl…RT @BearBertthe: He took his time but Albert is accepting of the neighbours cats and allowed them into the house🙀 

"They had free reign und…@otrogoga60 @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935… https://t.co/ZZZFwllNTPRT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @mapleveewesem: 🆘🐾💔 RIGLEY needs vetting the shelter can't give him ASAP. But he needs a place to chill while he heals. Are you a kind #…RT @FarahJadran: GOOD NEWS: @SyracusePolice reunite missing dog with Syracuse woman | @CNYCentral #dogs #goodnews #Syracuse"

"Aisis ran of…RT @LifeWithJohn: We only live once, Snoopy."

Wrong!
We only die once.
We live every day!
.
.
"Be like Snoopy - live every day! ~ #Life #Pos…Read something good, check out ""Women Lead: Heels Are Optional"" by Lynette Edwards https://t.co/6Dm94A1z8K #kindle… https://t.co/aivGYu1yCr#happy #streetstyle #moda Elegant Wooden Sunglasses https://t.co/UCZuwqDeaN https://t.co/TU1WILuurURT @TheTwinPowers: Stay #curious, joyous and gracious... and let your #imagination and #love flow freely! "

.

#mindfulness #growth 
"#spiri…RT @Work_Psych: Live for now because that is all you have, tomorrow is promised to no one 🙂"
#quotes #MotivationalQuotes #LifeGoesOn #Growth…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Bella find a home #Manchester #DogsofTwittterRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help George find a home #CUMBRIA
#dogs #dogsoftwitterRT @TheTwinPowers: Chill out and #relax more. We take our lives way too seriously - don't forget to live them! 

.

#tooshort 
"#enjoylife #…📷 We Become Friends, not just father and son. . . . . . #myson #love #babyboy #mylove #myboy #family #baby #son… https://t.co/uZfwlfJhZYRT @AlpsInfoCorp: AlpsLogic IT Solutions has experience &amp; expertise in a broad range of Microsoft technologies and languages 👍 #USA #Canada…RT @MiriMission: Nessy is here and she is looking for her forever home. "

Isn't she adorable?!

"If you would like to be considered, please…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…RT @Berti_and_Ernie: I'll get this ball! #dog #friends https://t.co/rIuKMLPJlSRT @MiriMission: Nessy is here and she is looking for her forever home. "

Isn't she adorable?!

"If you would like to be considered, please…This Is The #Proper Way Of Entering A #Country, Unlike What's Going On Now! Unlike The #Muslims That Have Been Brou… https://t.co/qFAH9gMec1I’m smiling BIG TIME 😁 following my speaking engagement today! So glad my testimony resonated with so many people!… https://t.co/6GJe08EMe8My sweet puppy, Cynthia, went to the #groomer today. She got #butterfly #bows. How does this affect my manliness?… https://t.co/dadQk6hYh8RT @WilfandErnie: Dad thinks we've got enough #stuffedfrens. Pfft 😤 good job Mums in charge 😂😂 #dogsoftwitter #dogs #SaturdayMotivation # h…RT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet, if you would like to donate or collect from a food bank, most will have dog and cat food and will welcome…#WonderfulPoppies needs an urgent foster🌺Innate urge to avoid exertion #life 🙇🏽💜🕊RT @Eli_Krumova: How silicon-based #life comes into being"

#engineering #neuralnetwork #automation #DEVCommunity #Programming #100DaysOfCod…#onlyfans #patreon #mym ----&gt; ploytigerstam 
#Model @ploytigerstam
#Photo @maxxtigerstam  #exclusive
#ploytigerstam… https://t.co/NYvg4uNOwF💚Dm for promo on  https://t.co/mC0t58ftj3 💚💯RT @Eli_Krumova: How silicon-based #life comes into being

#engineering #neuralnetwork #automation #DEVCommunity #Programming #100DaysOfCod…Morning guys 
#MassageInRiyadh 
#body to body massage
#happy ending and dating 
WhatsApp me 0562130458 https://t.co/OrKwGXeEtpRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Teddy find a home #CountyDurhamThis 2 in 1 dryer brush is so convenient and easy to use. Check out my full review on Facebook… https://t.co/mydM8iRBEeRT @AnubhavMohanty_: The worst tool used by a parent against the other through the innocent child born out of their luv 4 each other only !…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

"#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @fathersri8: Every morning a parent mourns the loss of a child who is still alive because not seeing the child #SharedParenting @rsprasa…RT @IMQuotes_Videos: Never say ""I Can't"" when it comes to something you want to accomplish."

"#Motivation https://t.co/S8pYwzZFXGRT @FrodoChihuawhat: Under the care of his vet, Frodo passed on today from worsening respiratory complications. I’m devastated and will mis…RT @patypixie: https://t.co/TPKmDl43Dx Please, look at this gorgeous hoodie #inspiration #hustle #life #cuteRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: All #dogs are instinctively heroes🐶💖"
Saving lives is just what they do🤗
Now it's our turn🙏

"Sign to #BanGreyhoundRacin…RT @RidleyHowell: Positive Vibes Only #bulldogs #dogsoftwitter #saturdayvibes #dogs #Ashur #Ridley https://t.co/fDkdx5HLC7#selfie #love #photooftheday #picoftheday #me #happy #instadaily #ecuadorprimero #style #photography #fun#instagood… https://t.co/c3mLGkoc6yRT @texastwins2004: #cindyism #quotes #inspiration #motivation #commonsense #wisdom #lifequotes #quote ""don't SHAKE the TREE, if YOU aren’t…RT @Berti_and_Ernie: I'll get this ball! #dog #friends https://t.co/rIuKMLPJlSRT @texastwins2004: #cindyism #quotes #motivation #commonsense #wisdom #problems #lifequotes #quote “WHEN you STEP in OLD shit, IT still ST…RT @56blackcat: If you haven’t been following "
"the story of when Baby Dog came to live with Malcolm the Cat, you’re missing out! "

"It’s bee…""Always bring your own sunshine with you."""
-Anthony J. D'Angelo

#inspiration #motivation https://t.co/58q77TMgvrRT @DogLostUK: #FOUND #DOGS * SOUTH WEST * April 8th - March 23rd 2021

"These #FoundDogs are on the @DogLostUK site as being FOUND in our #…RT @BettyBrigade: ""Always bring your own sunshine with you."""
-Anthony J. D'Angelo

#inspiration #motivation https://t.co/58q77TMgvr.

For every minute you are angry you lose sixty seconds of happiness.

  - Ralph Waldo Emerson - 

"Another gem fro… https://t.co/S0Un4AtShYRT @lettythebulldog: Today is Letty’s 5th Birthday! Love my baby girl! 🎉🎂 HAPPY BIRTHDAY LETTY! 🎉🎉 #happybirthday #lifeoflettythebulldog #b…Puzzle toy time #dogsofinstaworld #dogs #dogplay #dogenrichment #canineenrichment #puzzle #puzzlegame #fun… https://t.co/n7ytCwK73GThink Fun T Shirts, Think Groovi 😍"
See the range at https://t.co/I9j9XGm6L3

We've Got Every Member of Your Family… https://t.co/nCWVQ2yCFMand sent his goodwill messages to the church on behalf of the University Management. 

"Thanks to all our volunteers… https://t.co/CQ3UqK48nbAccording to Wikipedia, Derrida's actual first name wasn't Jacques, but Jackie. "

Holy shit! 

It's like that episo… https://t.co/W9hWRevGGJRT @Dragofix: Make the consumption of dog and cat meat illegal  https://t.co/nMjVWwEO2s #AnimalRights #dog #dogs #cat #catsRT @AdoptionsUk: Please retweet to help Jim find a home #CUMBRIA #UK 

"Previously a farm dog, aged 10, looking for a quiet adult home as on…know that you got this - keep going and you will get there - visit https://t.co/bCbpRTb3Xs for Personal Growth info… https://t.co/Rb2Refbx61im bored now...i have zero entertainment and no one i wanna talk to..🤷‍♂️#trending #music #rap #hiphop #quotes… https://t.co/g2MtemeByVRT @_AnimalAdvocate: Nobody says you have to love #dogs but you have to hate them if you still want dog racing to continue 🐕💔 "

"✒️#BanGreyh…RT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @IsaNahilaS: Show love and support to your people while they are ALIVE! After is too late to go cry on them! Love is some you show not a…RT @Flow_blume: @Bella_Ely_ @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @otrogoga60 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @Bella_Ely_: @otrogoga60 @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…#Happy #Birthday #Pop #Up #Cake #Card , Blank inside , #Papercut , #Men , #Women , #Children , #Kids , #Teens ,… https://t.co/b5CHAw3PctRT @Flow_blume: @Bella_Ely_ @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @otrogoga60 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…💕 Mi color preferido!!!!"

#happy #style #life #travel #girl #selfie #viral #tbt #loveyourself #following #memes… https://t.co/VAyNTiFXI3You’re a winner baby we love you even more than you love drag queens

#rupaulsdragrace
#dragqueenkid
"#babyvideos… https://t.co/etHHxfYy7fHaving dinner with my roommate and while in deep conversation he says, “The game is all about the mindset.” And I t… https://t.co/Lsrk0IYAqmRT @Bella_Ely_: @otrogoga60 @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @otrogoga60: @Bella_Ely_ @Flow_blume @Cathhewat123 @KedmaHelena1 @Cassandra_Jully @_90_ @LadyYAZNE @Paramji28108935 @Silviadomi22G @Jenn…RT @Kraturescuedog: Meet my family! Left to right. Paqo, Polo then me! Raffy my younger brother and Maia the wolfdog #family #cute #dogs we…RT @AlexiusVasko: 60 years and I in a bank account"

#opportunity #business #motivation #success #entrepreneur #goals #love #workfromhome #m…“What does it mean to be Mindful?”
Here’s an interesting range of articles from #InfinumGrowth on #Mindfulness; wri… https://t.co/WW9tPWtdhwNothing like watching a little #television #tv after work #dogs #muttsofinstagram #gsdpuppy #sarahkitty #maizytrue… https://t.co/TMl7tVNJJFRT @jake_watersxx: Mr. Can’t Do Know Wrong had to work so that left me alone with some time on my hands. I decided to take some pictures in…RT @Dragofix: Make the consumption of dog and cat meat illegal  https://t.co/nMjVWwEO2s #AnimalRights #dog #dogs #cat #catsRT @depot_pets: #dogsoftwitter are the best!!! We met our goal today &amp;  we will be donating $100 to A2A Rescue in Idaho! I can’t thank you…RT @_AnimalAdvocate: Nobody says you have to love #dogs but you have to hate them if you still want dog racing to continue 🐕💔 

"✒️#BanGreyh…RT @BearBertthe: If ever I wanted Bert/Albert's follower numbers to make a huge difference, its to make these babies too hot to handle and…What if the fire I've been feeling is not meant to burn it all down, but is meant to light me up."

#FridayFeeling… https://t.co/HofJoe9AG2RT @Aslanthe4eared1: So much cuteness for a #Caturday ... I just can’t with these two...  🥺😍Must Watch!  #CatsOfTwitter #dogsoftwitter #dog…RT @ClydeHusky: Happy weekend!! 

#dogs #SaturdayMorning https://t.co/r8qbug0stJRT @AdoptionsUk: APPEAL FOR INFO* MALAMUTES FOUND #Brynna #Wales They are very scared  Both are very underweight They are very smelly and c…RT @olgamyself415: RETWEET. RETHINK https://t.co/NkHwyxuyWQRT @56blackcat: If you haven’t been following 
"the story of when Baby Dog came to live with Malcolm the Cat, you’re missing out! "

It’s bee…RT @AlysaMarieWx: Winter has returned briefly. Flakes the size of quarters! 

Atlas loved it! 

We have about 1-2 cm in summerside. 

"#edmo…RT @leaderINCREASE: ""Leadership has a price."" - Michael Jordan"

#michaeljordan #thelastdance #nba #basketball #quotes #leadership #leaders…RT @mapleveewesem: @ginachron Plz RT ⬆ 
Poppies needs to find a #DogLover within 4 hrs of #NYC to #FOSTER her STAT . Plz apply on links in…“Cage-Free”#Dog Travel Shades. Adjustable canopy for all size #dogs! Keep #pets from overheating in cars. Simply pl… https://t.co/HDebegjJHSShe really dosent like him all that much but they love to snuggle together when they sleep. (Sound on!) #seniordogs… https://t.co/tpVVtI4j15This is all
Am gonna say 

Theater here I come 

4 days on set 

"#Movie #Life #Live #Your #True https://t.co/RkSWEXiT9tLimited Time Sale, $0.99, K9 Mystery Two-Book Series by award-winning author Bev Pettersen, "

"GET A COPY:… https://t.co/f0PGJrvlGk📷 This is all Am gonna say Theater here I come 4 days on set #Movie #Life #Live #Your #True https://t.co/sT1qvLofMc https://t.co/gLY0ZawBqz#Happy #Mother's #Day #Card , Blank inside , #Flowers , #Garden , #Spring , #Love , #Caring , #Simple , #Classic… https://t.co/8EKZpECdxTDay 2"
"Initiate and seize the moment to give back to your family and community during this coming Ramadan.  Always b… https://t.co/AHZKAIxhNGRT @funnydo25814387: She was a Pit Bull and she was ""ugly"" and ""unappealing"" to shelter visitors. She would sit in a corner and watch the o…RT @funnydo25814387: Say hello to Blu"

#dogs #DogsofTwittter #dogsofinstagram 
"📸: please dm for credit/removal https://t.co/dYpxC9zWQFShe looks so happy! 💕 G-ma definitely owes her a BD dinner!! 🎉RT @juliana_monty: Baby #lamb keeps asking to be petted just like #dogs &amp; #cats would. Live animal exports to be banned in #England &amp; #Wale…""Me"" appears to be the root cause of #fear/#desire as in order to experience this there must be a something ""other… https://t.co/g7edeXbL1II blogged about what has been on my mind. It was a great writing exercise. Normally I wouldn't post something like… https://t.co/5gzPocBLqaRT @juliana_monty: Baby #lamb keeps asking to be petted just like #dogs &amp; #cats would. Live animal exports to be banned in #England &amp; #Wale…Act Ashamed #dogsofinstaworld #dogs #dogplay #dogenrichment #canineenrichment #dogtricks #dogtrickschallenge #fun… https://t.co/GTu0PtcmdyRT @WilfandErnie: Dad thinks we've got enough #stuffedfrens. Pfft 😤 good job Mums in charge 😂😂 #dogsoftwitter #dogs #SaturdayMotivation # h…RT @Berti_and_Ernie: I'll get this ball! #dog #friends https://t.co/rIuKMLPJlSRT @Protect_Wldlife: Another 100 Dogs and Cats neutered by the @MiriMission Borneon Team with a TNRM Project in collaboration with @SPCAKK.…RT @Berti_and_Ernie: I'll get this ball! #dog #friends https://t.co/rIuKMLPJlSHelp this precious boy. #Downey #LosAngeles #Dodgers #Dodgerdogs #AdoptDontShop #adorable #family #loveable #Urgent… https://t.co/zLnfok6yARThat beautiful sound of cooking up nourishment."
✨💛✨🧡✨💛✨
Tridoshic Quinoa and Veggie Stir-Fry
#ayurvedicstyle
#dosha… https://t.co/PvFgsjTu1SRT @Raluca_Florea: #Florida #FortLauderdale Brie ID:A2134850 2y/o 54lbs female Chinese Sharpei and American Staffordshire mix. Please #help…RT @kforough1: She is so perfect in every way!!! How can i help?  Do pledges help promote a foster? https://t.co/FkpVy9t5uoRT @AlpsInfoCorp: AlpsLogic IT Solutions has experience &amp; expertise in a broad range of Microsoft technologies and languages 👍 #USA #Canada…I am super stoked when I run a sub 30 min 5kms.  I have run my entire life. This thread and his story are very… https://t.co/0b0rxUZtjyRT @Malcolm_theCat: Friends! Send help. That is all. Thank you. *Sigh. 😾
#caturday #catsoftwitter #cats #dogs #dogsoftwitter #SaturdayMotiv…
